This may have been based on historical events , and we know that the makers of this TV docu-drama took liberties to make it more dramatic - I can live with that - but it was just so badly done ! I was amazed in the event of an unfolding mid-air crisis how calm everyone seemed , surely someone would have panicked , and what a smooth flight , no passenger discomfort apparent - come on ! Not sure about the regulations , nowadays some of the airline security stuff seems OTT nonsense , but why take your shoes off before the emergency landing , common sense tells me this is not a good idea ! The shots of this massive airliner coming down on this remote airstrip were unconvincing and fake . In reality it would have been an awesome sight viewed from the ground nearby , in this movie it was out of proportion and looked like the model it probably was . Escape slides appeared at the front and mid emergency doors , yet nobody appeared to exit from the front , even though the drop was much less . The Captain went back into the plane after the landing - why ? this was never explained . We know the emergency landing was due to being out of fuel , but even so there must have been some fuel sloshing around at the bottom of the tanks , and the risk of explosion must have been a very real danger , yet the evacuation seemed almost leisurely , and everyone stands around at the foot of the escape slides instead of getting as far away as possible , as I am sure I would have done . There were just too many inconsistencies , errors and faked action in this . I would have preferred to have seen a representation of the drama in real time , and with realistic motion of the plane portrayed . It had the potential to be quite thrilling , but doubtless due to the budget restrictions failed , and made one feel that a plane losing all engines was no big deal really , and you would safely glide down to a bit of a bumpy landing , but no real danger ! - the reality of course being somewhat different !
I saw this movie last month at a free sneak preview and I walked out . It was pretty horrible . In the process of trying too hard , they over acted and made a horrible movie . I was disappointed since I felt all the actors had made respectable choices in the past so this one could n't be that far off the mark -- but , I was wrong . I was hoping they would give out a survey at the end of the movie so I could tell them not to release this movie . I was lured in by the free aspect of the preview , but it turned out to be a waste of my time -- and , usually , I 'm very easily amused . It tried to be innovative and creative with the shots , ideas and filming , but because they threw together so many ideas at once , it failed . I 'm not usually picky about movies and I usually do n't feel the need to display my opinions about movies , but I had to warn everyone not to watch it . I registered on IMDb just to tell all of you guys
All you need to know about this film happens in the first five minutes : it looks cool , it has a solid original soundtrack reflective of the late-60s period , and all but a couple of its characters are unlikeable . Once you get that message , you may as well switch to another film . Davies 's protagonist ignores his beautiful girlfriend , one of the few people in his life who cares about him . Then by the time he takes her advice to join her in the real world -- instead of living a fantasy film of which he 's the imagined director -- he does so by pushing her aside and pairing up with an actress he 's idealized beyond reason . A couple laughs and some thoughtful art direction are the only things worth watching here . The film is also interesting as documentation of Jason Schwartzman 's fall from Mount Rushmore . In Rushmore , Schwartzman 's annoying brattiness was something to be overcome , but here it 's his character 's only quality . Schwartzman 's family connection clearly landed him in this role ; here 's hoping his choices improve .
... but it 'll make you wonder if we had any in the first place ! This movie is just as bad as any of today 's horrible horror . A man goes around ogling semi-clad ladies , trying to decide which one to kill so he can give his girlfriend a new body . One scene involves a man staggering around and spurting all over the set for a full three minutes , coating everything what what must be well over ten gallons of `` blood . '' The movie also attempts to create a sense that what the man is doing to his girlfriend is wrong and against nature , but the movie is so badly done it 's impossible for the audience to dredge up any feeling of shock or outrage . Aimlessly dark and unimpressively sinister , this movie ca n't even get its own title straight -- the beginning credits say `` The Brain That Would n't Die , '' but the end credits list it as `` The Head That Would n't Die . ''
The concept for Sarafina appears to be a sound one , that is aside from the musical perspective . It attempts to combine upbeat African music with a story describing the atrocious conditions and atmosphere that black people were forced to endure at the time the film was set . The contradictions of each of the two elements are too glaring and the film never justifies such rapid shifts between jubilation and terror . Had it simply been a drama reflecting these conditions it may have been a good film , however the scenes of school children being shot down by soldiers do n't exactly sit well next to the songs . Aside from the poor premise the acting is n't the best either , Goldberg gives a mediocre performance as does the remainder of the cast . Overall a disappointment . 3/10
A great concept gone wrong . Poor acting , even worse writing ... .After watching the first two episodes I was wondering why it ever made it to season two . The characters are forgettable , the writing is poor , the sets are just OK . The special effects are simply sad - so much better has been made in the same time-frame - where is the money going on this one ? The first episode starts out interesting then goes downhill fast - the precept of the whole show is just silly . Now do n't get me wrong , I am a huge Sci-Fi fan and 'geek ' - but this show simply does n't cut it . As I said in the beginning , I am truly surprised it made it to season two - so much better has been canceled after only one season ( Jake 2.0 for example ) . This show was just bad .
I saw this film on its release , and have watched it 3 or 4 more times , including last week . I regret I have to be a voice of dissension with regard to Mr. Branagh 's performance . This is really a glorious , sumptuous film , to say nothing of ambitious at over 4 hours long - beautifully shot and designed . Derek Jacobi , Julie Christie , Kate Winslet , Richard Briers , and many others do fine jobs . Then there 's Kenneth Branagh . If ever there was a vanity project for an actor , this is it , and Mr. Branagh spares nothing in putting the `` ham '' in Hamlet . From the stunt casting ( which gives us the worst performance ever by the woefully miscast Jack Lemmon ) , to the bits of distracting business thrown in to infuse a sense of `` naturalness , '' to his own performance which runs the gamut from throwing away the single most famous soliloquy in all of literature to screaming every line of others . His performance confirms that , while he may come across better on stage where bigger is necessary , he has never been a great film actor . The scenery budget could be charged to catering , Mr. Branagh eats so much of it . His performance is a perfect example of why people do n't go to see Shakespeare - `` full of sound and fury , signifying nothing . '' And if there is fault to his direction , it is that he keeps the camera firmly glued on his overblown performance . No matter what theories people may posit on the Bard , he was , after all is said and done , a playwright . The brilliance of his plays rest in the fact that his themes are universal and timeless . Although there is no `` right '' way to play his plays , there is most certainly great acting , good acting and bad acting . Shakespeare himself gives instructions to the players in the text of `` Hamlet '' itself . It amazes me how Mr. Branagh `` mouthed '' it , but did not hear it . It was an example of spending too much time working out how he 's going to say something , and too little figuring out WHAT he 's saying . While Mr. Branagh has certainly done a wonderful job in mounting some entertaining productions , he would be wise to stay behind the camera and allow those who know the art of acting to practice it . His direction has always been better than his acting . I still give him immense credit for resurrecting interest in filming Shakespeare . He set a great template for other productions . And , it would be interesting to see him onstage , from about 20 rows back . But , I do hope he chooses to direct more and act less . Is it worth seeing ? Certainly . There are many little joys to be found in the film . But , it 's a long , long movie and , by the end , one may feel less that they enjoyed than survived it .
... Ever . This is the bottom . I am not joking . The theater should 've had a warning of some kind . 'Abandon all hope ye who enter here ' would 've been fitting . I do n't have the words to describe accurately the hell that this movie is . Its debilitating stupidity even fails to amuse . This movie is definitely aimed at some of the slower turtles in the sandbox . The story was blatantly stolen from a 10 minute Bugs Bunny cartoon and then stretched like Mr . Fantastic to 90 excruciatingly painful minutes . I remember when the Wayans 's were funny . I guess the pressures of Hollywood for them to produce produce produce are to blame for the poop that churns out at a consistent rate . I 'm sad and offended that they think we are stupid enough to enjoy 90 minutes of kick-in-the-balls jokes with a thin plot based on a cartoon . I disliked nearly everything about this movie . I wo n't spoil anything but the baby is actually a midget with Marlon Wayans 's face poorly superimposed over the midget 's body . What I DID like was the ending . Not the movie 's resolution , but the actual end where we all stood up and walked out . I gave this movie one star , but it clearly deserves less . I do n't feel that the six minutes they spent writing the script is worth a star . This does deserve a Razzie and I pray to God it gets it . When are people going to learn ; if you stop paying to see this idiocy they will stop pooping it out . Seppuku is a reasonable alternative to this film . Avoid it at all costs . You have been warned .
Terry West had a good idea w\ this movie . He just did n't flesh it thru . There are endless shots of the creepy looking school 's exteriors that go on forever and probably to pad the film 's running time . Also at this school there are only 2 students . Misty Mundae is good as usual but this film will always belong to Ruby LaRocca ( which is the only reason to watch the film in the beginning ) . If the script centered on her interesting character we 'd have a movie to watch . She is so GORGEOUS ! ! Good news for DVD buyers , Terry West 's earlier ( and better ) film `` Blood For The Muse '' is a special feature . One thing I 'd like to say is that this movie feels like someone who 's not good at delivering the punch line at the end of a long joke for the ending feels that very same way . Then again , just watch this for Ruby LaRocca .
Certainly not horrible , but definitely not good . Cry , The Beloved Country ( 1995 ) was directed by Darrell Roodt and written for the screen by Ronald Harwood ( Adapted from the 1946 novel by Alan Paton ) . Starring James Earl Jones and Richard Harris . The film is about pre-Apartheid South Africa , and the stories of a black man and a white man intertwining . The pious but naive preacher Stephen Kumalo ( James Earl Jones ) receives a letter from Johannesburg saying that he must come immediately ; he later finds that his son has killed a man . The rich farmer/landowner James Jarvis ( Richard Harris ) finds that his son , a fighter for black rights , was the one killed by Kumalo 's son . In this they connect . I can not compare it to the 1951 film of the same name , for I have not seen it . Or the 1974 musical titled Lost in the Stars for I have also not seen it ; both look better than this one . But Cry Freedom , on the other hand , I have seen ; it has a much more urgent air to it , like it actually is trying to say something where the film Cry , The Beloved Country seems to have no idea where it is going . Very `` Wishy-washy '' . I refuse to compare the film to the novel ( except that I did enjoy the novel more than I enjoyed the film ) because novels and films are two extremely different media and there is no point in trying to transfer directly one to the other or compare them via the same means . Frankly , this movie blew . Well , I guess it was n't that bad , -- Five-out-of-ten , -- but it was n't that good either . Both of the leads , both very capable actors pull some of the most wooden performances I have seen with some of the most awkward dialogue in film history ( but that can be blamed on he screenwriter , Ronald Harwood , who is also oddly off is game with this film , having also written the sublime The Pianist , and Being Julia ) . Among other things the point and themes of the novel are lost almost entirely in its transition to film for the third time ; there is little , if any , tension with any moment of the film , racially or suspensefully . The music does n't help . The painfully misplaced and boringly pastoral orchestra tracks really help with this dulling down of the film . One upside is the cinematography , with many rather good or great shots , but unfortunately , this does not help the film too much . The last , striking words of Alan Paton 's novel are displayed in the last moments of the film . It is too bad that they seem to be so disconnected from the film that was just shown . I do n't know what Nelson Mandela might have seen in this film . Thanks for your time .
I was really disappointed in this movie . Those that voted this thing a 10 have a screw lose . The acting was ok , kinda wooden and cardboard . The ending was sorry . I just did n't care for this at all . No way could I recommend this mess .
This movie was extremely depressing . The characters were so cold . The mother , who is he main character , is everything but `` motherly '' . OK , she was unhappy in her marriage and always put her husband and children first . Her husband dies . She then goes to visit her son and meets this hunk who is sleeping with her daughter and ends up sleeping with him . Until this part , the movie is all right . Not excellent , but it can be watched . The guy is charming and who can blame her ? OK it 's not very motherly to sleep with your daughter 's lover but let 's blame that on the shock of losing her husband . She becomes totally obsessed with the guy . I think this is the part where I started to dislike the movie . She 's always there wanting to please him in an `` old fashioned way '' with snacks while he is working on her son 's house ( I guess this is the only thing she ever learned to do ) , as if it was the only way she could get his attention . The guy obviously is not very interested ( actually , it seems more like he considered sleeping with her a charitable activity ) and instead of being insulted by that , she continues to beg him to go to go to bed with her and to be nice to her when he becomes very abusive . `` I want to please you '' , she tells him in a desperate way while he is insulting her very badly . What outraged me in this movie , is the utter lack of self-respect the mother has for herself . She tells Craig something like `` I am just a shapeless lump '' the first time they sleep together . This movie is an insult to women kind . If it had been me , I would have bought myself a little object that would have brought me the same satisfaction and a lot less emotional pain ... : )
The Dereks did seem to struggle to find rolls for Bo after `` 10 '' . I used to work for a marine park in the Florida Keys . One day , the script for `` Ghosts Ca n't Do It '' was circulating among the trainers in the `` fish house '' where food was prepared for the dolphins . There was one scene where a -dolphin- supposedly propositions Bo ( or Bo the dolphin ) , asking to `` go make eggs . '' Reading the script , we -lauuughed- ... We did not end up doing any portion of this movie at our facility , although our dolphins -were- in `` The Big Blue ! '' This must have been very close to the end of Anthony Quinn 's life . I hope he had fun in this film , as it certainly did n't do anything for his legacy .
This is , ostensibly , a movie about multiple grief . As such , it ought to move viewers and make them empathetic with the plight of the main characters . However , its irritatingly postmodern style makes it almost incomprehensible . The camera continually switches from one scene to another , from one personal crisis to the next , creating a choppy , disjointed effect . Most characters appear to live aimless , unstructured lives , held together by their professional commitments . ( It also stretches credibility that a man who has just been given what amounts to a likely death sentence , would cheerfully indulge in a sex romp with a woman he has just met ) . The storyline ( if there is a storyline ) is difficult to follow . In sum , the overall effect is rather disappointing . In spite of all that , the acting is generally good and some of the scenes are quite powerful .
Without a doubt , this is one of the worst pictures I ever actually paid money to see - the kind of flick you choose out of desperation at the mall cinema during a Christmas holiday when you have missed the start times for anything good but still are dead set on seeing a movie ! And that is exactly how I came to see this stink bomb ... At the distance of the better part of three decades I can still smell the rotting fish that constitute this story line . Unbelievable plot - that a killer whale carries a grudge against an individual not of the sea - is laughable . And that 's about all , except for a completely out-of-place `` love theme '' that plays over the finish of a film devoid of a love story . At least Charlotte Rampling is lovely ( in a two dimensional role ) but Richard Harris just chews up the scenery . He was no Captain Quint ( Robert Shaw ) and this is no `` Jaws '' . Mercifully , I have put most of it out of mind and when I run across it on television air casts I move on immediately . `` Danger , Will Robinson ! '' See the current t.v . commercial showing a husband and wife whale-watching ( `` Orca - I love Orca ... '' ) - at least it is over in sixty seconds . This flick represents 92 minutes of my life that I will never get back .
This extremely weak Australian excuse for a motion picture is sort of like the Pavlov Dog Experiment amongst horror movies . You remember this famous `` Conditioned Reflex '' experiment from your school books , right ? The Russian scientist Pavlov proved that dogs tended to salivate before the food actually came into their mouths and this through repetitive routines stimulating the animal 's reflexes . Pavlov rung a bell a couple of instants before the food was delivered to the dog and , after a while , he became anxious and excited and already started salivating from hearing the sound of the bell . What the hell has this whole boring explanation in common with a sleazy and low-budgeted Aussie slasher flick , I hear you think ? Well , the modus operandi of the maniacal killer in `` Nightmares '' is an exact variant on Pavlov 's experiment . Each and every single murder sequence is preceded by the raw sound and image of the killer breaking a window , because he/she insists on using a sharp piece of glass to slice up the victims . So this means that , after a short while , inattentive and bored viewers can afford to doze off and simply look up again when they hear the sound of shattering glass . That way they still do n't miss anything special ! Regarding the quality of `` Nightmares '' as a film I can be very brief . This is a cheap , uninspired and largely imbecilic Aussie cash-in on the contemporary popular trend of American slasher movies . In the early 60 's , a four-year-old witnesses the cruel death of her mother as her throat gets slit open in a nasty car accident . Twenty years later the same girl – Helen Selleck – is a successful stage actress , but she still has severe mental issues and regularly suffers from horrible flashbacks and traumatic nightmares . She auditions for a role in a black comedy play revolving on death and gets the part . Shortly after the big premiere , everyone who 's even remotely involved with the production gets slaughtered . It is truly retarded how this movie attempts to uphold the mystery regarding the killer 's identity and motivations even though even the most infantile viewer can figure it out after the first murder already . I do n't think I 've ever seen a more obvious whodunit than `` Nightmares '' and the creators should have just showed his/her face straight away and save themselves from embarrassment . The murders are explicit and very bloody and there 's also an unhealthy large amount of gratuitous nudity to `` enjoy '' . However , the production values are poor and thus the movie is never at one point shocking or provocative . The few clips we get to see of the actual play make it appear that it quite possible could be the worst thing ever performed on stage . The only positive elements in the film are the characters of the director and the gay newspaper critic , whom are both delightfully sarcastic and insult the rest of the cast members as much as we do . `` Nightmares '' is a dreadful piece of exploitative horror cinema , but hey , at least I gave you a golden tip to make it more digestible .
An annoying experience . Improvised dialogue , handheld cameras for no effect , directionless plot , contrived romance , ick ! to the whole mess . Ron Silver was the only real actor . Gretta Sacchi was TERRIBLE ! Henry Jaglom did better with Eating which suited his style much more .
Despite , or perhaps in part because of the clever use of music to underscore the motivations and ideologies of each of the major characters , stereotypes are in , and verisimilitude and characterization are out in this not-too-subtle cinematic screed . One gets the sense that John Singleton was dabbling in post-structuralist literary theory because it was the flavor of the day , and `` Higher Learning '' was the tendentious result . The low point of the movie is the `` peace '' rally , in which the symbols of the 1960s `` free love '' movement are reappropriated for what much more closely resembles a `` Take Back The Night '' rally with live , stridently identity-conscious musical acts in tow . Perhaps in his prim revisionism the director was trying to assert that identity politics is the new Vietnam ? Ooh , how Adrienne Rich of him—and Remy 's firing into the crowd is a nice touch , if you 're into Rich 's sort of political posturing . I wish I could give this movie negative stars . I can recommend it only to those interested in the 1990s as history , a time when radical feminists brought the academic trinity of race , class , and gender to popular culture and declared man-hating `` a viable and honorable POLITICAL option '' . Where 's Camille Paglia when you need her ?
I am a big 1930 's movie fan and will watch most anything that I see on Turner Classic Movies thats new for me . So I gave this a shot , after all it 's the great Harold Lloyd who rivaled Chaplin as a great silent film comedian . I have watched much less of Lloyd 's silent films then of Chaplins but I have to say I 'm a much bigger Chaplin fan . Anyway this film fell so flat for me that I did n't finish it . I can understand why his sound career was so limited , he did n't get very good material to work with . After you 've seen Chaplin , Abbott and Costello , The Three Stooges , Martin and Lewis , The Marx Brothers , and Laurel and Hardy do boxing spoofs ( or violence in general ) , this one is very forgettable . I was also interested in watching Adolphe Menjou as I really enjoyed him in Paths Of Glory but his role here also did nothing special for me . Maybe they should have gotten into the boxing sooner because at least half the film ( at least it seemed that way ) is before he gets in a ring . I can tell there are a lot of Lloyd fans here and this wont be a popular review but I must rate this as compared to what else was out there at the time , 4 out of 10 . Do n't watch this with anyone your trying to get to like old movies as they may not watch another one with you again , very flat . For an alternative to anyone who really liked this or is looking for more little known comedies in general I recommend `` Kelly The Second '' made a few years earlier , another nobody becomes a boxer comedy with Patsy Kelly and in a supporting role Charles Chase . These have both been shown on the Turner Classic Movies channel .
Yowza ! If anyone who loves Laurel and Hardy can watch this movie and feel good about it , you 're a better person than me ! This movie , while a great attempt at 'imitating ' Laurel and Hardy through appearance , sound and routine , falls very short of honoring them , or even being a movie of any substance . I blame Larry Harmon . Dialogue is torn from old L+H movies and planted in unrealistically , the plot is muddled with useless characterization of the other needless co-stars , Pinchot 's accent was bizarre for Stan , and while Sartain did an excellent job with Ollie 's accent , he tried too hard to create the wonderful mix that was Mr. Hardy . Where was a ( good ) musical number ? Editing is choppy , acting is stiff , lines are horrid , physics are -implausable- ( although perhaps they were TRYING to give it that feel of cheap sets ? ) , and overall it 's a terrible thing to witness . It 's even more painful to watch than ATOLL K , where the legendary duo did their last film in awful 1950 's era writing and photography . Do yourself a favor and watch as much of the ORIGINAL Laurel and Hardy films as you can , and learn how things WERE . You know what a MAGNATE is , do n't you ? Stan Laurel did not perpetually reply with semi-moronic quips at every sentence . I pity anyone who thinks that THIS was a decent update/honor of the boys . Where was THE CLASSIC THEME SONG ? ! ? Why ruin 'Here 's another fine mess ' ? Why skip 'any the wiser ' ? Why was there a pointless gaggle of co-stars ? ! WHY MISS GULCH FROM THE WIZARD OF OZ ? ? ? ? WHY MUST LARRY HARMON BE IN IT ? WHY BOZO ! ? And did THE LEARNING CHANNEL help fund the thing ? I mean , really . Fart jokes , for God 's sake . FART JOKES .
This film is about a family trying to come to terms with the death of the mother/wife by moving to Genova , Italy . The plot of `` Genova '' sounds promising , but unfortunately it is empty and without focus . The film only consists of a collection of scenes depicting the daily life of the family , such as swimming , taking piano lessons or cooking eggs . Most of such scenes are redundant and tiresome , completely failing to engage viewers emotionally . The ending is very disappointing as it is not spectacular , moving or emotional . I can safely say that I am disappointed and bored by `` Genova '' The only thing good about the film is the sunny weather and the beauty of Genova . `` Genova '' can serve as an extended tourism advertisement for the city , but not as a film to be enjoyed .
`` Sky Captain '' may be considered an homage to comic books , pulp adventures and movie serials but it contains little of the magic of some of the best from those genres . One contributor says that enjoyment of the film depends on whether or not one recognizes the films influences . I do n't think this is at all true . One 's expectations of the films , fiction and serials that `` Captain '' pays tribute to were entirely different . Especially so for those who experienced those entertainments when they were children . This film is almost completely devoid of the charm and magnetic attraction of those . Of course we know the leads will get into and out of scrapes but there has to be some tension and drama . Toward the climax of `` Captain '' Law and Paltrow have ten minutes to prevent catastrophe and by the time they get down to five minutes they are walking not running toward their goal . They take time out for long looks and unnecessary conversation and the contemplation of a fallen foe with 30 seconds left to tragedy . Of course one expects certain conventions to be included but a good director would have kept up some sense of urgency . One does n't expect films like this to necessarily `` make sense '' . One does expect them to be fun , thrilling and to have some sense of interior logic . `` Captain '' has almost none . Remember when Law and Paltrow are being pursued by the winged creatures and they reach a huge chasm which they cross via a log bridge ? Well how come they are perfectly safe from those creatures when they reach the other side ? They can FLY ! ! ! The chasm itself means nothing to them . The bridge is unnecessary for them so where is the escape ? If the land across the chasm is 'forbidden ' to the flying creatures the film made no effort to let us know how or why or even if . I know that Paltrow and Law ( both of whom have given fine performances in the past ) were playing `` types '' but both were pretty flat . Only Giovanni Ribisi ( who showed himself capable of great nuance here ) and Angelina Jolie seemed to give any `` oomph '' to their roles although Omid Djalili seemed like he could have handled a little more if he 'd only been given the chance . He did a pretty good job anyway considering how he was basically wasted . The film had a great 'look ' but there are so many ways in which CGI distracts . CGI works best when it is used for the fantastical , when it is used to create creatures who do n't exist in nature or for scientific or magical spectacular . When it is used to substitute for natural locations it disappoints . There is no real sense of wonder . A CGI mountain does n't have any of the stateliness or sense of awe and foreboding that a real mountain does . I know that the design of this film was quite deliberate and it was n't necessarily supposed to LOOK real but should n't it FEEL that way ? It just did n't . As for the weak and clichéd script ... homage is no excuse . Even so , had the movie had some thrills and dramatic tension it might still have been enjoyable . `` The Last Samurai '' was as predictable as the days of the week and I am no fan of Tom Cruise but it had everything that `` Captain '' did n't most notably it drew the viewer into its world and made us accept its rules and way of being in a way that `` Sky Captain '' most definitely did not . I 'd like to see a similar approach taken for films about comic book heroes of the 30 's and 40 's . The original ( Jay Garrick ) Flash or Green Lantern ( Alan Scott ) come to mind as being ripe for such treatment . Maybe the better , more well known and fully realized characters that those character are would make for a much better film . It would be hard to be worse .
2002 's undeservedly popular `` I Love the 80 's '' is an inane , idiotic , offensive and downright disgusting pop-culture mess of a show that was the first in a long-line of horrid television programming that ultimately spelled out the end of VH1 , which was at one time the only real music-oriented channel left on TV ! I used to practically live on VH1 up until the spring or winter , I forget which one now , of 2002 when garbage like this started to appear for absolutely no reason whatsoever . Out of sheer morbid curiosity ( I 'd guess that 's what you 'd call it ) I had decided that I would go ahead and give it a look-see anyhow the first night it came on even though the advertisements looked like complete crap . At least I can honestly say that I was n't a bit disappointed by it because my expectations were obviously bottom basement-level to begin with . The emphasis of this show I found out within the first 5 minutes was less on each year of the 1980 's and what was and was n't culturally significant or popular ( which is what I was expecting to see ) , but instead more of an impromptu platform for a whole slew of really god-awful no-name comedians to display what they more than likely think is their comedic skills *rolls eyes* ... more like lack-thereof if you ask me ! It 's pretty easy now to see why no one had ever heard of any of these idiots before they appeared on this show because they are all so terribly unfunny and pathetic in their attempts at so-called `` humor '' that I swear I could feel my intestines knot up with each and every rancid one-liner they shot off one after another ! Altogether , I have no problem in saying that `` I Love the 80 's '' was/is trash of the lowest denominator , and one of the main reasons why I almost never watch VH1 anymore .
Sean , you know I think that you are absolutely the greatest actor in the world , but I ca n't commend you for this . Comedy just is n't your strong suit . However , it was n't all your fault . Some of the stuff was just too hard to understand . Alfred Lynch did a decent job , but you got ta wonder where the lines came from from the beginning . Once again , Sean ... I apologize .
A singularly unfunny musical comedy that artificially tries to marry the then-cutting edge rock 'n ' roll explosion with the middle-class sensibilities of a suburban sitcom . The result is a jarringly dated mish-mash that will satisfy none of the audience that went for the music , but will at least keep their parents sated . A quick glance at the promo write-up on the back of the video release should give some idea of the content . Tom Ewell is a drunken agent , overplayed with so little comic ability you almost expect him to bellow `` hi honey , I 'm home ! '' The blurb sites him as `` So funny in 'The 7 Year Itch ' '' . It sounds almost like an excuse . What other film would sell itself on the fact that a leading player was good in something else ? It reads like `` So funny in 'The 7 Year Itch ' ... but he 's rubbish in this '' . Mansfield , a beautiful girl with rumoured 50-inch assets , is , unfortunately , a bargain basement Monroe with all the acting ability and comic timing of a rotting haddock . Her wooden delivery combined with Ewell 's OTT double-takes make this a comedy partnership from Hell . For her part , the sell gives us : `` [ Jayne Mansfield ] whose more obvious talents are the cause of many of the film 's biggest laughs ! '' As you can see , a movie sold on the idea that it 's lead has a big chest is not the most sophisticated of things . Most of this `` humour '' is men literally falling over themselves , their glasses cracking upon site of Mansfield , etc . Only the Freudian nightmare of a milk bottle overflowing casts doubt upon its `` U '' certificate . For the musical side , the most adenine of players are chosen . Would you really care to see Eddie Fontaine offer : `` I love your eyes , I love your lips , they taste even better than potato chips '' in a song called `` Cool It , Baby '' ? Only the incendiary Little Richard breaks out of the MOR , though is forced to sing some of his more dad-friendly songs in a four-minute sequence . And how come all the acts sing without a single microphone ? Attempted satires on the industry are broad and childlike in their conception . Technically , the picture was quite advanced , with special effects ( including a ghost-like Julie London ) and deluxe color ( Which now looks flat and artificial . In fact , with its reds that bleed and fake-looking flesh tones , it resembles a colorised movie ) . Direction , though , is n't outstanding , and the sound quality is also quite poor . Perhaps it comes down to it being so old . A time when men still smoked on screen , sickeningly cute child actors made adult remarks and black servants only got to cook and dance . ( All of which happen here ) . Yet Some Like It Hot , The African Queen , Ben Hur and many , many more stand as examples of films from the period that can still be enjoyed today , so the `` good at the time '' argument does n't really stand up . At its heart The Girl Ca n't Help It is a cynical and patronising venture that does n't bear close inspection . 4/10 .
Although it 's an R rated movie , I really doubt that you 'll really enjoy it unless you 're a teenager Why ? Because there 's no real plot , no character development , no funny jokes . The only thing that this movie has plenty of is nudity . Tons and tons of naked or almost naked chicks ( pretty nice ones I might add ) to feast your eyes on . I really ca n't understand why this movie has the American Pie title since it 's only a bad combination between an erotic movie and a comedy without succeeding in being either of them . My suggestion is to watch this movie only if you want to see some naked chicks , but you 're too shy to rent/buy an erotic movie . Gave it 1/10 for the 2 smiles i had in the entire movie and another 2/10 for the nice chicks
I ca n't believe they got the actors and actresses of that caliber to do this movie . That 's all I 've got to say - the movie speaks for itself ! !
Whoever thought that ANOTHER Home Alone film would be a good idea should have their head examined ... Same plot , different kid , more villains ( which leads to MORE endless stupidity in the traps ) . The other two films were bad enough , and this is where it hits rock bottom . People may as well watch the other films for plot , as it 's all identical .
In recent times I have been subjected to both this movie and `` King Arthur '' , on DVDs chosen by others for an evening 's `` entertainment '' and together they achieve nothing more than bearing out a growing notion I have that the modern movie-watching public totally lacks discrimination , and is content as long as they get `` action '' . Both movies were utter rubbish . Whatever happened to character development ? Whatever happened to meaningful dialogue ? Whatever happened to ACTING ? And , when watching something that vaguely purports to be `` historical '' , whatever happened to attempting to capture some measure of accuracy , some realistic idea of the `` political map '' of the time , even some slight flavour of the era , especially in its social attitudes . Why do they all have to display the value set of 21st century America ? I have read on the message boards of disclaimers that `` little was known '' of the dark ages . Not so . Considerable amounts are known , with much learned scholarship on the era , but these jokers simply could n't be bothered to do any homework . I only wish I could vote 0/10
`` Intensive Care '' by Dorna von Rouveroy is easily one of the worst horror movies ever made.This extremely cheap Dutch slasher flick offers some gore and plenty of absurd situations.A horror veteran George Kennedy is completely wasted as as Professor Bruckner.The acting is abysmal , the action is slow and the climax is laughable.A famous surgeon has a car accident.He lies in a coma seven years and then he wakes up and goes on a bloody rampage . `` Intensive Care '' is clearly influenced by American slasher films including `` Halloween '' and `` Friday the 13th '' series.The killings are hilarious and the dialogs are painfully stupid.Still if you are in the right mood you can give this piece of trash a look.You 'll laugh until it hurts with this one-you can believe me !
This insipid mini operetta featuring a Eddy-McDonald prototype in a Valentino scenario is so bad it becomes an endurance exercise after five minutes . It 's silly from the get go as this brevity opens two military men discussing the lack of manliness in the son of one of the officers . In under a minute he is packed off to Morrocco where he lives a double life as the Red Shadow ; the leader of an Arab tribe that would rather sing than fight . Alexander Gray and Bernice Clare possess fine light opera voices ( with little acting ability ) and there 's a decent bass in there as well but the acting is so haphazard scenes so ill prepared you get the feeling they are making things up as they go along . This two reeler was part of a larger stage production that lists six writers . With more room to spoof and warble the show may have had some entertainment values but this rushed quickie is little more than an insult to an audience waiting for the feature presentation .
Silent Night , Deadly Night 5 is the very last of the series , and like part 4 , it 's unrelated to the first three except by title and the fact that it 's a Christmas-themed horror flick . Except to the oblivious , there 's some obvious things going on here ... Mickey Rooney plays a toymaker named Joe Petto and his creepy son 's name is Pino . Ring a bell , anyone ? Now , a little boy named Derek heard a knock at the door one evening , and opened it to find a present on the doorstep for him . Even though it said `` do n't open till Christmas '' , he begins to open it anyway but is stopped by his dad , who scolds him and sends him to bed , and opens the gift himself . Inside is a little red ball that sprouts Santa arms and a head , and proceeds to kill dad . Oops , maybe he should have left well-enough alone . Of course Derek is then traumatized by the incident since he watched it from the stairs , but he does n't grow up to be some killer Santa , he just stops talking . There 's a mysterious stranger lurking around , who seems very interested in the toys that Joe Petto makes . We even see him buying a bunch when Derek 's mom takes him to the store to find a gift for him to bring him out of his trauma . And what exactly is this guy doing ? Well , we 're not sure but he does seem to be taking these toys apart to see what makes them tick . He does keep his landlord from evicting him by promising him to pay him in cash the next day and presents him with a `` Larry the Larvae '' toy for his kid , but of course `` Larry '' is not a good toy and gets out of the box in the car and of course , well , things are n't pretty . Anyway , eventually what 's going on with Joe Petto and Pino is of course revealed , and as with the old story , Pino is not a `` real boy '' . Pino is probably even more agitated and naughty because he suffers from `` Kenitalia '' ( a smooth plastic crotch ) so that could account for his evil ways . And the identity of the lurking stranger is revealed too , and there 's even kind of a happy ending of sorts . Whee . A step up from part 4 , but not much of one . Again , Brian Yuzna is involved , and Screaming Mad George , so some decent special effects , but not enough to make this great . A few leftovers from part 4 are hanging around too , like Clint Howard and Neith Hunter , but that does n't really make any difference . Anyway , I now have seeing the whole series out of my system . Now if I could get some of it out of my brain . 4 out of 5 .
Today , I wrote this review in anger at Uwe Boll and Hollywood . Hollywood has produced movies based on one of the darkest days of our nation . 911 changed everything . It changed our perception of security . It changed our understanding of the evil of man and humanity . Most importantly and devastatingly , it changed our world . However , I ca n't not stress how utterly repulsed , disillusioned , and angry I am at the careless , blatant ignorance of Hollywood seeking to make a lucrative profit out of death and destruction . This film and those like it are bound to cause controversy amid word-of-mouth among moviegoers and critics alike ; most surely to be echoed by the mainstream press . Hollywood has sunk to a new low . Even lower than the low-down bastards who perpetrated the most barbaric acts of savagery and unrelenting cruelty . Behind it all is Uwe Boll . I am very angry at this movie . How dare they disrespect the memories of families of those lost ? How dare they mock the lives of the brave men and women who risked their lives to save those trapped in the doomed towers on that fateful day of infamy ? ! ? ! ? How dare they try to satirize and at the same time capitalize on a national tragedy in the mist of a mourning and weary post-911 world ? ! ? ! ? ! How ... dare ... they ? To those who have the gall to even think of seeing this morally appalling travesty , I say this with a heavy heart with all my strength : Remember . Think back to that day and ask yourself whether or not you are a sane and moral person . Think back to that day , ask yourself whether or not this film is a disgrace and dishonor to the lives lost on that day . Think back to that day of the outcry of families of loved ones . Think back to that day of the lives lost on those two planes . Think back to the further carnage it caused following the attacks . Ask yourself if you have a soul . Think . Remember . Respect the memories of the lives lost on 911 by not seeing this film at all .
I was very disappointed by this film for a few reasons . For the first half hour it 's actually pretty decent . Although the acting is n't any better then that which you would find in a rap video , its kinda funny and the production value does n't seem half bad . In fact I almost thought this would be almost as good as Perico Ripiao ( another recent Dominican film ) which turned out to be MUCH MUCH better than I expected . The plot for the movie revolves around not just cheating husbands but how women are viewed and treated in Dominican society as a whole , which makes for a good premise especially in The Dominican Republic . Unfortunately I do n't think the makers of this film relies that a good movie is all about how you treat your subject matter , and they f'ing butchered the veal cutlet they had before them . About 30 minutes into the movie the roles of men and women are reversed after the main characters wife puts a kind of spell on him as a result of his cheating habits . Not only does this transition happen via what look to be cutting edge , space age , CGI effects dating to what I 'm guessing would be the 70 's , but the whole plot just goes down the drain . The rest of the movie is nothing but cheesy predictable situations , and clever one liners . To top it all off ( and I guess I should warn you now **SPOILER ALERT** ) it all turns out to be a dream . Oh my who did n't see that coming ? Oh man I almost forgot the most ridiculous thing about the movie . Well after about an hour into it I start thinking `` hmmmm something just does n't seem right about the sound track but what can it be ? ? '' and then it hits me HALF OF THE MUSIC IN THE MOVIE WAS TAKEN FROM A VIDEO GAME CALLED KING OF FIGHTER 95 . When oh when DR will you give us a film we can call a work of art ? ! ? ! Perhaps a comedy to match France 's Amelie , or an action flick to match Thailand 's Ong-Bak , an animation as Akira was to Japan , a witty crime thriller as Layer Cake was to England , or a socio-awakening journey as Waking Life had here in the states . ... i would give it a 1 but i 've seen much worse come out of DR , search Los Jodedores and you 'll know what I 'm talking about .
This reminds me of when I was a born-again believer who was going to be a minister . I never actually thought I would be a minister or even graduate from high school because I was almost positive I would be raptured to Heaven before that would ever happen . That was before I discovered that Christianity was a bunch rubbish . I am now an atheist , and that just proves that the `` once saved always saved '' doctorine that Christians tell us is no more real than elves . If it were true then why did I leave after many years of being a devout born again believer ? Yes , I really was saved . I prayed that silly sinners prayer with all my heart . If Christians were to read their Bible they would discover that their god thinks like rape , genocide , abortion , and many other atrocities are alright according to him . They might be surprised to learn that no where is the word `` rapture '' mentioned .
I read somewhere that when Kay Francis refused to take a cut in pay , Warner Bros. retaliated by casting her in inferior projects for the remainder of her contract . She decided to take the money . But her career suffered accordingly . That might explain what she was doing in `` Comet Over Broadway . '' ( Though it does n't explain why Donald Crisp and Ian Hunter are in it , too . ) `` Ludicrous '' is the word that others have used for the plot of this film , and that 's right on target . The murder trial . Her seedy vaudeville career . Her success in London . Her final scene with her daughter . No part logically leads to the next part . Also , the sets and costumes looked like B-movie stuff . And her hair ! Turner is showing lots and lots of her movies this month . Watch any OTHER one and you 'll be doing yourself a favor .
let 's value it . entertainment : a trashy script which has been typed by unintelligent people in front of typewriters a thousand times.. pathetic acting that is thwarted by the story ... OK production value , including good set/location and gorgeous girl.. -rating 4/10 social message : the movie has no social message . it 's thought free ... .but if I pretend I were 10 , and my IQ were 70 . I feel the message is : do n't be afraid to love ? -rating 0/10 objectionable things : nothing special , just the mild Jewish hedonic and arrogant attitude that is presented by the writer/director . generally speaking , good , nothing degenerate -8/10 overall rating is 4/10
Goodnight , Mister Tom begins in an impossibly exquisite village in the south of England where the sun always seems to shine . Before we have much idea of the period we hear a radio announcement of the declaration of World War II . Soon a train blowing clouds of steam brings refugee children from London and when shy little William is billeted with reluctant , gruff old Tom ( who you just know will turn out to have a heart of gold ) our tale begins . And what a load of sentimental claptrap it is . In fact it 's just the old odd-couple buddy formula . Are n't any new stories being written ? As I suggested there 's hardly any period feel in the village and not much more in London apart from the odd old ambulance rattling around . And certainly no hint of the horror of the Blitz as London 's citizens file politely into air-raid shelters . Even when the local schoolteacher 's husband is declared missing presumed killed , he is later restored to life . I found ` Goodnight , Mister Tom ' cliched and obvious and John Thaw 's accent conjured up a picture of Ronnie Barker of the Two Ronnies with a straw in his mouth doing his ` country bumpkin ' accent . Incidentally my wife enjoyed this movie for all the reasons that I disliked it and looking at fellow-imdb reviewers I seem to be in a minority of one .
The only redemption was the small part by Larry Miller . It seemed that the movie was trying too hard to be `` Something About Mary , '' but I did n't even like that movie and it still fell short of those standards . The actor who plays Paul was great , but Selma Blair is stuck in the stupidity of her Cruel Intentions character . James Brolin was great , but Paul 's father seemed like he was trying too hard to be the Randy Quaid character from the National Lampoon 's Vacation movies .
I was excited to see a sitcom that would hopefully represent Indian Candians but i found this show to be not funny at all . The producers and cast are probably happy to get both bad and good feed back because as far as they are concerned it 's getting talked about ! I was ready for some stereotyping and have no problem with it because stereotypes exist for a reason , they are usually true . But there really was n't anything funny about these stereotypical characters . The `` fresh of the boat '' dad , who does n't understand his daughter . The radical feminist Muslim daughter ( who by the way is a terrible actress ) , and the young modern Indian man trying to run his mosque as politically correct as he can ( he 's a pretty good actor , i only see him getting better ) . it is very contrived and the dialog does n't flow that well . there was so much potential for something like this but sadly i think it failed , and do n't really care to watch another episode . I did however enjoy watching a great Canadian actress Sheila McCarthy again , she 's always a treat and a natural at everything she does , too bad her daughter in the show does n't have the same acting abilities !
this movie had more holes than a piece of swiss cheese . Ben Affleck was seriously NOT trying to act in any way , shape , or form . He outright sucked . Nothing about the movie was believable . The first problems were in the intro- where the man gives everything of value to the Salvation Army Santa Claus but it does n't show why . And then the granny sticks her head in the oven- really beautiful , and has absolutely nothing to do with the movie- it 's not even in the same tone as the movie . There was no explanation of the motivation for Ben Affleck to choose the house he chose ; there was not any believable reactions by the family he chose ; and people are swayed here and there without any cause to be swayed ( Example : Christina Applegate and Ben Affleck 's characters go tobogganing down a steep slope- this is the incident that makes her suddenly fall in love with him . Riiiight ... ) Anyway , there was a funny moment or two- but they were a rarity in the movie . It seriously needed another rewrite ( or 4 ) . Hope you enjoy !
I feel it is my duty as a lover of horror films to warm other people about this horrible and very very bad `` horror '' film . Do n't waste your time or money on this film , the acting is bad , the story is just one of the worst i have come across and the script was just awful . Nothing about it was good , you end up thinking to yourself why am i watching this crap . The plot had so many holes in it and they never got cleared up in the end , it was just so bad , i do n't know how a film so terrible could be made . As i said before i love horror films and i was so let down , it was an 18 but you see little blood and no scares or jumps at all . Also what annoyed me was how stupid things happened in the film that had no point to the plot at all like the brother and sister kissing , why ? is all i can say . Just do n't bother , there are far more great horror films out there , just do n't waste your time life is too short .
The bad out takes from `` Reign of Fire '' strung together , without any real story . Dean Cain tries to be a real actor , and fails again . In the end the dragons quit in disgust . BARF !
Sorry , I just did n't find the subject matter as compelling as the filmmaker did . The robot guy and the mole rat guy were pretty interesting , although Morris did n't really tell us much about them . The other two subjects were a bore . And the supposed `` connections '' between them did n't hold up .
Ridiculous . This movie is actually a vehicle for the Ramtha School of Enlightenment . If you are wondering who the *bleep* Ramtha is : `` Ramtha is a 35,000 year-old spirit-warrior who appeared in J.Z . Knight 's kitchen in Tacoma , Washington in 1977 . Knight claims that she is Ramtha 's channel . She also owns the copyright to Ramtha and conducts sessions in which she pretends to go into a trance and speaks Hollywood 's version of Elizabethan English in a guttural , husky voice . She has thousands of followers and has made millions of dollars performing as Ramtha at seminars ( $ 1,000 a crack ) and at her Ramtha School of Enlightenment , and from the sales of tapes , books , and accessories ( Clark and Gallo 1993 ) . She must have hypnotic powers . Searching for self-fulfillment , otherwise normal people obey her command to spend hours blindfolded in a cold , muddy , doorless maze . '' John Wheeler , one of America 's finest theoretical physicists , would roll his eyes about this movie . He has in the recent past criticized parapsychologists for their misuse and misinterpretations of quantum theory . This movie does the same thing as those fools . There is a great review of this movie at Skeptico . I recommend anyone considering watching this movie read it first before contributing to a cult 's coffers . http : //skeptico.blogs.com/skeptico/2005/04/what_the_bleep_.html I noticed one reviewer here at IMDb say to take this movie with a grain of salt . It will take enough salt to kill a horse to wade through the garbage-thinking of this movie .
The entire thing is very beautiful to look at..the European location shooting was a good idea . The lead actors are attractive . The score is servicable . BUT THEN THEY SPOKE ! And the non-plot developed ! And it was all downhill from there . Pacino is sleepwalking and Keller keeps talking about how bored she is..hello , dear , you 're not alone . When he does a Mae West imitation , you might have to hide your face , its that painful to watch . I ca n't imagine how either actor or director Sydney Pollack got involved with this , or a better question , why it ended up stinking so bad ? Since death is represented in almost every scene , one way or another , maybe you 're supposed to have low enjoyment here . Maybe its supposed to feel as empty and cold as death . But I still ca n't recommend it .
Wonderful actors . Lousy script and not too great direction either . My main problem was I simply did n't CARE about any of these people . Not the killer not the victims . The settings were pretty drab . Dennis Quaid 's character was so poorly written in , I did n't even care when the end came . He got his kid back . Big deal ! I wanted my money back .
Need a lesson in pure , abject failure ? ? Look no further than `` Wizards of the Lost Kingdom '' , an abysmal , dirt-poor , disgrace of a flick . As we all know , decent moovies tend to sprout horrible , horrible offspring : `` Halloween '' begat many , many bad 80 's slasher flicks ; `` Mad Max '' begat many , many bad 80 's `` futuristic wasteland fantasy '' flicks ; and `` Conan the Barbarian '' begat a whole slew of terrible , horrible , incredibly bad 80 's sword-and-sorcery flicks . `` Wizards of the Lost Kingdom '' scrapes the bottom of that 80 's barrel , in a way that 's truly insulting to barrels . A young runt named Simon recaptured his `` good kingdom '' from an evil sorcerer with the help of a mangy rug , a garden gnome , a topless bimbo mermaid , and a tired-looking , pudgy Bo Svenson . Svenson ( `` North Dallas Forty '' , `` Inglorious Bastards '' , `` Delta Force '' ) , a long-time b-moovie muscleman , looks barely able to swing his aluminum foil sword . However , he manages to defeat the forces of evil , which consist of the evil sorcerer , `` Shurka '' , and his army of badly costumed monsters , giants , and midgets . At one point , a paper mache bat on a string attacks , but is eaten by a 1/2 hidden sock puppet , pitifully presented as some sort of dragon . The beginning of the film consists of what can only politely be described as bits of scenes scooped up from the cutting-room floor of udder bad moovies , stitched together in the vain hope of setting the scene for the film , and over-earnestly narrated by some guy who never appears again . Words can not properly convey the jaw-dropping cheapness of this film ; the producers probably spent moore moolah feeding Svenson 's ever expanding gullet than on the cheesy fx of this flick . And we 're talkin ' Brie here , folks ... : =8P Director Hector Olivera ( `` Barbarian Queen '' ) presents this mish-mash in a hopelessly confused , confuddled , and cliched manner , destroying any possible hint of clear , linear storytelling . The acting is dreadful , the production levels below shoe-string , and the plot is one tired cliche after another paraded before our weary eyes . That they actually made a sequel ( ! ! ! ) makes the MooCow 's brain whirl . James Horner 's ( `` Braveheart '' , `` Titanic '' , '' The Rock '' ) cheesy moosic from `` Battle Beyond the Stars '' was lifted , screaming and kicking , and mercilessly grafted onto this turkey - bet this one does n't pop up on his resume . Folks , you got ta see this to believe it . The MooCow says as a cheapo rent when there is NOTHING else to watch , well , it 's moore fun than watching dust bunnies mate . Barely . : =8P
This is an interesting idea gone bad . The hidden meanings in art left as clues by a serial killer sounds intriguing , but the execution in `` Anamorph '' is excruciatingly slow and without much interest . There is no other way to describe the film except boring . The death clues are the only interesting part of `` Anamorph '' . Everything connecting them is tedious . Willem Dafoe gives a credible performance as the investigator , but he has little to do with a script that is stretched to the limit . Several supporting character actors are wasted , including Peter Stormare as the art expert , James Rebhorn as the police chief , Paul Lazar as the medical examiner , and most notably Deborah Harry , who is featured on the back of the DVD case , yet only has a couple lines spoken through a cracked door . Not recommended . - MERK
We all know what 's like when we have a bad day at the office , right ? Well , this Neil Simon comedy looks at what it 's like when you have the worst of all days just trying to get to the office . Sometimes , it 's just not worth going , know what I mean ? And , sometimes , it 's just not worth doing something when it 's already been done before , in 1970 , with Jack Lemmon and Sandy Dennis ... and much better also . It 's not that Steve Martin is a lousy comedian or wrong for the role as the harried and stressed advertising exec ; quite to the contrary , on both counts . And , it 's not that Goldie Hawn is equally inept either ; her work has been consistently good , if not great , ever since I first saw her in TV 's Rowan and Martin 's Laugh-In of the 1960s . The problem with this movie is that it 's not about the hapless couple at all : it 's really about New York and why everybody should come to New York to live and love their lives away in married bliss – sort of – in the greatest city in the world . That 's if you 're a New Yorker ... Look , the 1970 movie is still an excellent comedy that realistically explored all the things that can go wrong when you take a trip somewhere , and included most of the situations and sight gags that you can imagine about what can happen to you in a strange environment . This 1999 version unfortunately goes off into gratuitous tangents specifically for an audience these days that expects or wants to see excess . For example , not content with the star appeal of the main players , there is a cameo ( relatively long also ) from Rudy Giuliani , then mayor of New York , as we all know . What – Giuliani bucking for President even then ? Worse – a walking talking advertisement for the kinder face of New York . And then we have John Cleese , reprising his role as Basil Fawlty – but this time , as a prancing cross-dresser also – once again browbeating hotel staff , sycophantically sucking up to rich customers and generally making himself look like the idiot he is , in this role . And , in the process , doing great damage to the memory of Fawlty Towers , arguably the best British comedy series , bar none ... Why was this 1999 movie made ? In the 1970s , New York was a dying city , in many ways . It was almost literally bankrupt . So , when made in 1970 , that was the city you saw : grim , dark , moody , unsettling and not the place that the harassed couple finally chose for their new life together in the Big Smoke ( as it was then , polluted and all ) . By 1999 , things had gotten better : glitz was back , New York was thriving , it was the Big Apple , ready for you to bite into , if you had the moxie ... So , naturally , the couple in this second coming find that moxie within themselves and finally join the fabulous fray to continue the American dream of life , liberty and the pursuit of happiness . Hence , this movie is truly comic but not for reasons that the producers perhaps envisaged . As much as I like Steve Martin and Goldie Hawn in comedy , this movie is a travesty of the much better one made with the great Jack Lemmon . If you 've seen the latter , then definitely do n't bother with this one .
This movie was pretty bad . Sci-fi is usually my favorite channel so I watch all the original movies that play on it . I really do n't know if this movie can be called original . Starting a zoo/theme park on a remote island sounds pretty familiar . What was it , oh yeah , Jurassic Park . But this has Sabertooth tigers instead . The movie starts out with a few stereotypical college kids on an island doing some kind of treasure hunt . One of them ends up dieing a rather gruesome death with some of the worst special effects I 've seen . The blood looked a lot like ketchup . Also at the beginning there is a scientist who wants to make as many saber tooth tigers as possible for people to enjoy . 3 of them have already escaped and are going around eating the tourists , or the people invited to the island to see the tigers first hand . Again , sound like Jurassic Park . Probably the coolest thing was the 1000lb saber tooth who crawled around on his front legs killing the mad scientist with a tooth statue of sorts that somehow shrinks and goes through the guys neck . Funniest death I 've seen on TV . The acting is extremely cheesy , the special effects are horrible . The CG tigers could almost pass for clay models , and even some of the sounds were off . For instance , when one of the college students is trying to escape , he uses an ax to break down a door , the ax goes into the door and about 2 seconds later you hear the sound . This movie was pretty bad . The cheesy deaths were quite funny though .
This is not a film you can really analyse separately from it 's production . The audience became the film-makers to an extent unprecedented in the history of the American film industry ; we felt so involved that viewing it becomes like watching the work of a friend . How is it possible to be objective ? This is our movie , is n't it ? Or is it ? There may be nothing more disingenuous than a film-maker who promotes himself as the audience 's friend , giving them all the naughty treats that the nannyish critics would deny them . Just look at that prime self-publicist Eli Roth , promising gore-hounds all the viscera missing from literally gutless mainstream horror films , only to churn out a watered down and technically incompetent piece of work like 'Hostel ' . David R. Ellis may not have spawned the monster that was the internet response to his film , but he was , quite understandably , quick to engage with it . He took the carnival-huckster school of film-making to a new level , getting the fans to build what they would eventually buy . So many have enthused over this interactive , democratic approach to film-making that they seem to have missed the point - that this is the most cynical form of film-as-marketing . Nothing is included that the film-makers know the fans wo n't buy , and any old suggestion that will get bums on seats is incorporated . The fact that the pitch became the title tells you all you need to know . Is n't this just the evolution of the focus group approach ? Individual creativity , talent , craft , ideas , all are sacrificed before the inane chatter of the masses . It 's a critical commonplace that focus groups and test screenings do n't make for good movies - why should the preemptive intervention of internet enthusiasts be any different ? Because we happen to be film fans ? Well , thank god for us , because otherwise I might not have seen a topless woman get her nipple bitten by a snake . So , yes , I had fun at the movie - a midnight showing , fresh from the pub and with a bucket of ice-cream - but it actually had relatively little to do with the film , and quite a lot to do with the atmosphere . Like Christmas , everyone seemed determined that they would have fun , no matter what . There was laughter , but I do n't know if it was with the film , or at the film . With a film as calculated as this one , is that even a meaningful distinction ? There are some genuinely good aspects to the film . Samuel L. Jackson gives a well-judged performance , pure self-parody but with a real sense of pleasure . Rachel Blanchard and Lin Shaye are decent in limited roles , and there are one or two inspired moments - the fate of the lap dog is genuinely funny black comedy that the rest of the film fails to emulate . The stock characters are to be expected , but the total lack of suspense is n't . What 's the point of a film that combines two great phobias if there 's no creeping menace ? There are several snake-jumps-out moments , but they 're incredibly badly staged . Only the annoying British man gets a decent pulpy death scene - the other killings are oddly flat . The demise of the honeymoon couple , for instance , is shamefully botched . Most of the actors fail to make an impression ; it 's a shame that a charismatic actress like Julianna Margulies should seem so tired ( when she tells two kids to close their eyes and pretend the turbulent flight is a roller-coaster , she could be talking to the audience - the film falls far short ) . There are worse movies , but there are many , many better ; another reviewer on this site compared this film with 'Lake Placid ' , and it 's as apt a contrast as any I can think of . That film worked so magnificently because the performances were excellent , the jokes were funny , the suspense sequences were scary , and it was n't devised by committee . That the characters had a little depth and shading was an unexpected bonus . I do n't need a post-pub midnight showing to have a good time with that film . This film will , in time , fade to become a mere footnote in film history . If it sets a precedent , however , I 'm genuinely worried about what might be crossing our screens in a couple of years time . In all probability , nothing much will come of it . Perennial popcorn favourites - 'Raiders of the Lost Ark ' , 'Alien ' , 'Halloween ' and of course , 'Star Wars ' - just are n't produced by group-think . In the mean time , I 'll tell you what - I have n't half got a craving for some Ingmar Bergman .
A particularly maligned example of Italian cult cinema with a nonsensical title to boot ( if anything , the alternate THE MARK OF Satan is even less relevant to the plot ! ) , this hybrid of Gothic Horror and Giallo ( with a strong dose of Erotica ) only contrives a flat sort of atmosphere throughout – actually matched by handling which is downright dreadful ! Here , we get the usual group of people ( an acting troupe ) stranded on an island ( to which they were invited by a Count – since he had become enamored of the leading lady , a dead-ringer for his missing spouse ) ! The characters are pretty much stereotypes : middle-aged but dashing hero ( played by Giacomo Rossi-Stuart and whose family history bears more than its share of violent tragedy ) , demure heroine , sluttish companion ( recalling Mae West and emerging the most annoying of the lot ! ) , a meek but devoted stage manager ( forever chided by one and all for his unmanly behavior ! ) , a couple of lesbians , a mysterious gardener ( the ubiquitous Luciano Pigozzi who , for once , gets in on the action , if you know what I mean ) , an envious housekeeper ( nominal star Femi Benussi though , for what it is worth , this is really an ensemble piece ) , a religious fanatic of a butler , an impressionable chambermaid , etc . While the film is not by any means unwatchable , the atrocious dubbing , snail 's pace , shoddy production ( with the scenes depicting the raging sea lifted from some black-and-white film ! ) and the fact that the murders only occur within the concluding half-hour do not help matters . Besides , Marcello Giombini 's score , though pleasant in itself , comes off as incongruously modern under the circumstances ; that said , the revelation proves a surprisingly elaborate one ( considering there is surely no shortage of suspects here ) .
A good deal of running around . A badly conceived adversary with very little complexity . A scientist who works in communications sending off signals into space and receiving them , gets caught up with aliens . Along with his pretty wife , he invades their territory and is given secrets about them . He becomes rather traitorous in the process . Granted , he is given little choice anyway . There is a scene where he gives them everything they want . This is a dull movie with lots of long stretches where little happens . The plot is n't technically bad . It 's just that we are usually following a car , a trip through a woods , investigating a building . This is what editing is all about . I suppose the story would n't technically support much more . Not much here .
I 've had to change my view on the worst film in the world having just seen this one . THIS IS IT ! Make no mistake this film is awful . Here 's a list of reasons : Hopeless storyline ( despite being based on a true story ) . Dreadful acting ( what was Judge Reinhold thinking ) Unbelieveably bad stunts . Childish dialogue . Non-existent continuity . Lack of atmosphere . Get the picture ?
Spoilers ahead if you want to call them that ... I would almost recommend this film just so people can truly see a 1/10 . Where to begin , we 'll start from the top ... THE STORY : Do n't believe the premise - the movie has nothing to do with abandoned cars , and people finially understanding what the mysterious happenings are . It 's a draub , basic , go to cabin movie with no intensity or `` effort '' . THE SCREENPLAY : I usually give credit to indie screenwriters , it 's hard work when you are starting out ... but this is crap . The story is flat - it leaves you emotionless the entire movie . The dialogue is extremely weak and predictable boasting lines of `` Woah , you totally freaked me out '' and `` I was wondering if you 'd uh ... if you 'd like to..uh , would you come to the cabin with me ? '' . It makes me want to rip out all my hair , one strand at a time and feed it to myself . THE CHARACTERS : HOLY CRAP ! ! ! ! Some have described the characters as flat , I want to take it one step further and say that they actually have a reverse character arch.. They actually start working on a parallel universe and almost start acting backwards ... THE ACTORS : Worse than the characters are the actors . They take already poor written characters and add in terrible high school drama acting . The `` Woah you totally freaked me out '' was said so monotone and slow - like it was dumbed down . I could complain for hours on the actors alone . TECHNICAL : LIGHTING : An eight year old would be disappointed with lighting on this movie . Too shadowy in areas , too bleached in others . The director should n't use light as an emotion until he learns how to light a basic scene properly . Baby Steps ! SOUND : How many sound guys does it take to make a really shotty sounding movie ? 9 . With that many sound guys this should sound amazing but quite the opposite has occured . There is one scene in particular that really sticks out , these guys are driving in a car and the sound of the car changes with every camera angle ... .WEAK ! CAMERA : Learn to use it . Anyway , I 'm running out of complaining space ... ..rent it - I dare you ... Rent it and learn from it ... give it a 1 rating..it deserves it . Signing off ... Amanda Christmas
`` That 'Malcom ' show on FOX is really making a killing ... ca n't we do our own version ? '' I speculate and paraphrase , of course , but in our hearts we all know it 's true , and that the only thing NBC added to the 'Malcom ' metric was sex . And , boy , did they add sex ... Thirteen-year-old Tucker gets a boner and covers it up with his skateboard . Tucker accidentally walks in on his Aunt in the shower and she accuses him of watching her and beating off . He spies on the cute girl in the next house from his bedroom window , and she knows he wants to see her topless but she teases him by smiling and closing the window . And this is all in the pilot . Take it from a grown man- a boy 's puberty is so sex-crazy and testicle-driven it is impossible to make it funny for a mainstream audience . The only times anyone has ever come close has been in movies , and you can count those on one hand . So it 's no surprise that `` Tucker '' has the warmth and appeal of a strip-club bathroom . Did the network actually think we would like watching kids grapple with puberty ? Is n't this the stuff people go to jail for ? If you doubt the show 's depravity consider this : 13 episodes were filmed but NBC canceled it after only 4 episodes aired ; they then made the unprecedented move of `` burning off '' the remaining episodes by airing them AT MIDNIGHT so no children could see them . Ironic since kids were originally the target audience . Apart from its general scuzziness Tucker features a running voice-over from the lead character to flesh out the shoddy writing . Even in 2000 it was horribly dated , with it 's ska incidental music and super-sarcasm . I could n't like any of the characters enough to laugh at the jokes and the jokes did n't exactly come a mile-a-minute ... Shame on NBC for this dirty rip-off ... they 're better than that . GRADE : C-
STAR RATING : ***** Saturday Night **** Friday Night *** Friday Morning ** Sunday Night * Monday Morning This second instalment of the Che films moves the story forward to the late 60s , where the man has now moved his resistance fighters into the hills of South America , surviving without enough food and water and with tensions mounting between the group . Everything comes to a head when he crosses the border into Bolivia and the government forces step up their campaign to bring him down . Without the flitting between time and places of the last film , Soderbergh 's second instalment focuses solely on the action in the hills , and manages to be an even duller experience . And more pretentiously , the score has been drowned out , giving the second instalment more of an unwelcome air of artsieness that proves just as alienating . There 's just an unshakeable air of boredom to the film that never lets up . You ca n't fault Soderbergh 's ambition or Del Toro 's drive in the lead role , it 's just a shame that somewhere in the production things managed to take such a disappointing turn . **
I totally disagreed with those comments which said this is a good movie . This is a totally SUCKED movie . I mean SUCKED - S.U.C.K.E.D . The story development is strange . Mia Kirshner changed from an innocent girl to a party-fun seeking chick for no convincing reasons at all . In addition , all the actresses looked way too old for being college students - College students looked like about 30 years old - you figure out the rest . I watched only about first ten minutes and started fast forwarding to look for sex scenes . all the sex scenes are lame , hasty and , most importantly , no frontal at all . All the sex scenes are laughable , considering how many clothes they had on . Do yourself a favor - put it down and save yourself a few bucks . Conclusion : Story - 0 , Sex - 0 , Acting - 0 , Score - 0 out 10 .
If you can imagine Mickey Mouse as a New York street pimp , or John Wayne as a Communist spy , then you might believe Pat Boone as a juvenile delinquent on his uncle 's farm in Kentucky and you could conceivably enjoy this movie . This film is so stupid that it is n't even campy for a mid 1950s sexless love story . And the problem is that Hollywood made such a big deal about Pat Boone 's refusal to kiss a woman not his wife on screen before its release that the audience knows he wo n't kiss Shirley Jones so you can not build any anticipation for the `` screen consummation '' of their love . It 's sort of like watching a western in which the cowboys do n't have guns . The story is pointless . Even the title song is sung with pained enthusiasm . April Love belongs in the worst film bargain bin along with Ishtar and Plan 9 from Outer Space .
I do n't usually comment , but there are things that need to be said . Where to start ... The acting , on Jeremy London 's part was horrible ! I did n't think he could be so bad . The plot could have been good , had it been well directed , along with a good solid performance from the lead actor . Unfortunately , this is one of those movies you read about and think it has great potential to be entertaining , but get disappointed from the start . Well , at least I got good laughs . I would n't waste my time if I were you .
Once again the same familiar story about a man ( writer here ) who sell his soul to the devil in order to have his most desired ambition in life : success . Unfunny script ( we should `` go home and write better '' ) , ridiculous lines in order to understand the `` strong '' `` Christmanish '' message ( our only aspiration in life is to find love , respect and a good friendship ) and a very long trial scene at the end where the agent Hopkins beat the devil ( Jennifer Love Hewitt is no sexy or evil at all ) for all the bad things she made to this unlikable character . Not bad efforts from the actors ( Baldwin also as a director , Cattrall in a `` Sex and the City '' role again , Aykroyd with some funny lines in his limited role ) . P.S . Try also a not so popular film from Greece called `` Alloimono stous neous '' , a brilliant adaptation of this myth ( an old man give his soul to the devil to get back his youth )
I suppose if you like pure action ... you 'll find it here . I suppose if you find a gorgeous blonde designed to be screwed ... find it here . I suppose if you want to find a couple of extra baddies , headed by 1-2 extra , EXTRA baddy bosses who meat a nasty end ... you 'll find it here . Overall , routine stuff , and the good guys come out on top big time under extra-ordinary circumstances . What I marvel most at ... How the good guys armed only with pistols , can kill dozens of bad guys with machine guns who are shooting at them at point blank range ... and missing . The goodies even get time to reload their pistols amid the hail of machine guns bullets . Ho-hum ! ! !
I would of given this film a zero out of ten , but i will give it a two . Reason One is that Shah Rukh Khan appears in the film , which is not really a reason . Last Point is that Rani Appears in this film and does a smooch with Kamal . I Love Rani very much and have a respect that she is a great actress . Which is why i did n't enjoy her in this movie kissing Kamal , but its no big deal . Anyway enough of the bedroom scenes that made this film noticeable , lets actually talk about this film . Is it good or bad , I think its a completely rubbish movie that made me yawn . Me being a Fantastic critic , you can see my other 250+ review 's by clicking on my name , I have great taste . The movie is not entertaining is one thing and if this is suppose to be hard hitting cinema , why is there no morale in this movie . Its a biased movie thats not a true story and it stinks . Watching Kamal kissing these actresses makes me sick , Man cant kiss properly anyway .
Many things become clear when watching this film : 1 ) the acting is terrible . Tom Hanks and Wendy Crewson are so-so , but the parent-child conflict borders soap opera-ish . The other two boys : an overly pouty child prodigy and your stereotypical I'm-a-babe-but-I'm-really-sensitive-inside blonde dreamboat ; 2 ) the film as a whole is depressing and disappointing ; 3 ) Robbie 's dreams and episodes are disturbing ( acted by Tom Hanks ) ; 4 ) the inclusion of the beginning love ballads is an odd choice ( `` we are all special friends '' ) ; 5 ) the weird lines and side plots are not made any better by the terrible acting ; and 5 ) this is a really bad movie . Expect to be disappointed -- and probably disturbed .
Inventor Wayne Szalinsky ( Rick Moranis ) is preparing to donate his problematic shrinking/expanding machine to the Smithsonian Institution as he and his wife Diane ( Eve Gordon ) get ready for a long weekend away from their son Adam ( Bug Hall ) . Wayne 's brother Gordon ( Stuart Pankin ) , his wife Patty ( Robin Bartlett ) , and his kids Jenny ( Allison Mack ) and Mitch ( Jake Richardson ) volunteer to look after Adam while his parents are away , but as luck would have it ( and the title would lead you to expect ) , the grown-ups are accidentally zapped by Wayne 's shrinking ray . As the kids run amok , their miniaturized folks must contend with monstrously huge insects , wrinkles in the carpet that look like canyons , and other threats to them . This was bad , like most straight to video sequels are , Honey , We Shrunk Ourselves was sort of laughable . I had to laugh at that movie `` roach '' Stuart Pankin and the party bullies were even more ridiculous , view at own risk !
First of all , yes , animals have emotions . If you did n't know that already , then I believe you are a moron . But let 's assume that none of us are morons . We all know that animals have emotions , and we now want to see how these emotions are manifest in nature , correct ? What we get instead is a tedious and ridiculously simplistic documentary that attempts to show how animals are `` human '' . The filmmakers search high & low for footage of animals engaged in human-like behaviour , and when it happens they say , `` That monkey is almost human ! '' ( that 's actually a direct quote ) . Everything is in human terms . They waste time theorizing about what makes dogs `` smile '' , but not once do they mention what a wagging tail means . The arrogance of these researchers is disgusting . They even go so far as to show chimpanzees dressed in human clothing and wearing a cowboy hat . I had been expecting an insightful documentary of animals on their own terms . I wanted to learn how animals emote in their OWN languages . But instead , researchers keep falling back on pedantic , anthropomorphic observations and assumptions . Add a cheezy soundtrack and images of chimps `` celebrating Christmas '' , and this was enough to turn my stomach . But it does n't end there . Half of this documentary is filmed not in the wild but in laboratories and experimental facilities . All the camera shots of chimps are through steel bars , and we see how these monkeys are crowded together in their sterile concrete cages . One particularly sobering moment happens near the beginning ( though you have to be quick to notice it ) where a captive monkey says in sign language , `` Want out . Hurry go . '' Obscure references are made to `` stress tests '' and psychological experiments which I shudder to imagine . Baby monkeys are separated from their mothers at birth and are given wireframe dolls in order to prove that baby monkeys crave a `` mother figure '' . And after 40 years of experiments , the smug researchers pat themselves on the back for reaching their brilliant conclusion : monkeys have emotions . One chimp named `` Washoe '' has been in a concrete cage since 1966 for that purpose , and to this day she remains thus . We get a brief glimpse ( again through bars ) of her leaning against a concrete wall with a rather lackluster expression . Personally , I do n't need to see any further experimental data . Washoe , I apologize for our entire species .
The First Power ( 1990 ) was a terrible film that came out during the late 80's/ early 90 's era of cheaply made horror films . I found this movie very boring but extremely hilarious in some parts . This movie lacks so much sense and credibility that it ai n't even funny . The swift justice system in this film makes Texas look weak by comparison . Lou Diamond Phillips is in way over his head with this role ( he plays a hard-boiled cop ) and Tracey Griffith ( Melanie 's more attractive sister ) plays a psychic . Do n't waste your time with this one because it 's bad . What a minute , I take it back . This movie makes a great party film . Check out the switchblade crucifix packing nun , she has the nicest legs I 've ever seen on a Nun that was n't in a Jesus Franco nunsploitation flick . Yeow ! This marked an end of an era for L.D.P . His star was tarnished and he could n't draw flies to a dung heap . It was D.T.V . for him until his `` ressurection '' a few years later . Not recommended unless you 're desperate .
MST 3000 should do this movie . It is the worst acted movie I have ever seen . First of all , you find out that the shooter has no bank account and no history since leaving the army in 1993 and pays his rent in cash . There is no way in hell that a person like that would ever be allowed to be that close to a president not to mention a high profile job . Also , the head of security for the POTHUS would not be so emotional that he would start drinking into a haze if the president was shot . This movie sucked . I can not express the extremite that this movie was . Every single actor was terrible . Even the chick at the trailer park . I crap on this garbage . What a waste of time .
Once upon a time there was a science fiction author named H. Beam Piper who wrote a classic book named `` Little Fuzzy '' which was about a man discovering a race of adorable little fuzzy humanoids on another planet . Mr. Piper died in 1964 , but Hollywood and many of today 's authors starting looting his grave before his cadaver got cold . This is the book where they got the idea for Ewoks from . Skullduggery is such a blatant ripoff of `` Little Fuzzy '' I can wonder why I 'm the only who 's ever noticed ? But do n't take my word for it . Here 's a link to Project Guntenberg where you can download a copy of `` Little Fuzzy '' for free : http : //www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/18137
This movie is so aggrivating . The main character looks like he 's 35 and I 've seen scrawny beanpoles with more balls than this guy . The plot twists are so predictable its not even worth watching for the humor factor . Also some of the worst dialogue I 've heard in 3 years , `` lets go find a small animal to torture '' . Ugh ... ..I ca n't even continue , do n't watch this pile of garbage , it was made in 8 days . The one highlight is the drunk dude calling the main character a faggot for drawing pictures . 2 out of 10 , unwatchable
It was a disappointment to see this DVD after so many years . For me the main problem 's the uneven script . While some of it is witty and hip , quite a bit of it is dull , unfunny and lifeless . Many of the gags just sit there , lacking spark and energy . Of the cast , Mae West and Rachel Welch come over well . Roger Herren in the role of Rusty shines ( too bad he did n't make more films ) . But for my money , there 's just too much of John Huston , and poor Rex Reed is n't hardly given a fighting chance . His character seems relegated to skim around on the sidelines , wondering what he 's doing in this film . The low user rating should give an idea as to the public 's opinion of this piece . Vidal 's original provided much potential that was pretty much wasted . Not even the 'classic ' film clips did much . All in all a rather sub par effort , and it 's not likely to get much better with time .
Just finished this movie ... saw it on the video shelf and being a Nick Stahl fan I just had to rent it . In all honesty , it probably should have stayed on the shelf . The concept was an interesting one and there were several fairly smart twists and turns but somehow I guessed almost all of them before they came along . And the movie just went a little too far in the end in my opinion ... if you have to suffer through a viewing of it you 'll see what I mean ! On a positive note , Nick Stahl 's acting was great ( especially considering what he had to work with ) . Eddie Kaye Thomas was also good but he always plays the same type of character ... too much Paul Finch from `` American Pie '' coming through for my liking . And finally , the worst part of this movie has to be January Jones ' emotionless performance ... I guess a pretty face really is all that matters in Hollywood .
by Dane Youssef A gang of crooks . The perfect plan . It all goes wrong . They 're in trouble . The police are outside . They 're cornered . What are they gon na do now ? Sound familiar ? The movie seems like it 's trying to be a combination of the acting workshop , the `` indie '' film and the theater . It 's the kind of things that actors love -- it 's kind of like a workshop or a play because it mostly consists of tight focusing on the actors acting ... acting angry , tense , scared , conversing , scheming , planning -- giving the performers a lot of free range to really ham it all up . A trio of crooks , one leader , one goon , one brother , come up with a big heist scheme ... and a monkey wrench is thrown into the works . To top things off , there 's a bit of a `` fender-bender '' and one of the crooks in flung through the back of the windshield . The cops are on their tail and they stumble into a bar named poetically ( and leadenly ) `` Dino 's Last Chance . '' Spacey , as a director , tries to keep the focus on the actors ' performances and delivery of dialouge . He pans over to a bright passion-red cigarette ad of a smoking and smoldering Bogart . And he keeps all the violence off-screen , really . I think that was a mistake . Focusing on the intensity and gruesome violent scenes would have given the movie some edge . The problem with the movie is that it moves too slow and suffers from miscasting in almost every role . Matt Dillon ( `` Drugstore Cowboy '' and `` Wild Things '' ) seems too young and too idealistic to be the leader of this gang . Gary Sinese seems to brooding and deep in thought to be a spineless tag-along with these guys and Joe Mantaga is effective as the traditional routine foul-swearing mad-dog police lieutenant who 's all thumbs , but he is n't given anything to really do here . William Fischter is the only actor who is believable in his role as a brainless grunt who just wants to spill blood . And the crooks are in a tense situation where they either go to jail or they try to think of some way out of this . Spacey lacks the ability to create a lot of tension and keep it going . The characters are mostly chatting away , trying to think of a plan ... and they 're to calm and too articulate . There 's even a scene where the crooks are playing pool with a whole swarm of armed cops right outside , ready to strike . At one point , one of the crooks even call the police who are right outside the bar . Oh brother . Oh bother . These cops are going to either blow them away or going to lock them up . Should n't the holed-up crooks be a little scared , a little uneasy ? Meanwhile , all the real action is happening inside . Someone whips out a gun , a baseball bat , which leads to an ugly confrontation off-screen and there 's one more casualty that happens that 's ... well , kinda sad . But ... Faye Dunaway also should have spent more time with a dialect coach , improving on her New Orleans accent . Skeet Ullrich is fine in a smaller part . A cop listening in reaches for a pack of matches at the absolute worst time is a nice look . And so is a scene where someone goes right through the rear windshield . The dialouge is obviously trying to go for a David Mamet approach and it 's as profane , but never as realistic or as insightful . The movie feels like too much of what it really is ... a really low-budget movie with an actor behind the camera for the first time directing other actors from a script that 's `` not bad , but needs a few more re-writes . '' Spacey shows he 's not a terrible director , but he lacks a sort of feel for `` shaping a movie '' and it feels like he 's just filming actors act . These actors are all talented and could work with the material , but they all feel out of place . As I said before , the movie really suffers from miscasting . I do n't mean that the wrong actors were cast . I think they found just the right cast , but placed them in all the wrong roles . I think switching some of the roles would 've helped immensely . Having veteran mob actor Joe Mantagna play the leader of the pack , Gary Sinese as the angry police lieutenant outside on his bullhorn giving orders and barking at his troops , keeping Fischter in his `` bloodthirsty goon '' part and Matt Dillion as the sacrificial lamb . That would have been a big improvement . When some actors direct , it works . They can even win Oscars for it . But a lot of the time , when actors direct , they have a tendency to just focus on the performances . Just shoot the actors acting . Sometimes it works ... but they need a good showcase for it . An excuse for it . Hostage situations are all pretty much the same in real life just like coming-of-age stories so it 's only natural that movies about them will go from point A to point B as well . There are a few really great entries into this genre . ' Spacey himself appeared in a similar movie about hostage situations : `` The Negotiator . '' This certainly wo n't become a cult classic , let alone one of AFI 's 100 . Still , it does have a few nice moments and personal touches , but in the end , it 's instantly forgettable and the kind of movie that would play best on regular TV . It 's just not worth going out of your way to see . I give a 3 out of 10 . Spacey 's other directorial credit , `` Beyond The Sea '' was reportedly a better effort . Hmmm ... maybe it 's true . You need to fail before you succeed . by Dane Youssef
There 's only one thing I 'm going to say about cat in the hat ... as a KIDS movie and a good comedy movie it sucks ... I lost track of how many terrible jokes in the movie that not only sucked but were n't exactly kid appropriate . Oh and by the way the way the cat in the hat talked was annoying ... as for the plot I completely forgot . Who cares it sucked anyway . i 'm not sure why Mike Myers joined but I think the writers were trying to make it sound like him in Austin powers without the swinger talk and it overly succeeded- but so what it was annoying . do n't see it-it belongs in the bottom 100 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... the jokes are so unkiddy it 's funny
This movie was a disappointment . I was looking forward to seeing a good movie . I am the type of person who starts a movie and does n't turn it off until the end , but I was forcing myself not to turn it off . Theonly reason why I did n't turn it off was because I am a huge Christian Slater fan and I wanted to see him act in it . I was really speechless after I finished watching the movie . This movie was one of the worst movies that I have seen in my life . Thank you Christian Slater for putting some humor into it . If you had n't been in this movie I would of been bored out of my mind . I also agree that Anthony Hopkins needs to stick to acting . By the time the movie was over I did n't even get the plot . I was both confused and annoyed .
The Western society has been fed ideas about India being a poor country . Movies like these only make those beliefs stronger . Such illustrations make it all the more difficult for Indians to be accepted abroad . Agreed there are poor and homeless in India , but why is there no representation of educated people if not the successful ones . I totally hated the idea of the movie portraying Patrick Swayze as another Mother Teressa . In my opinion this movie has shown India in a very bad light giving wrong notions . It is unjust to discuss only one aspect of the society . Exactly the reason why people ask me , `` When we go to India , can we hire an elephant right outside the airport so we do not have to walk on the roads so full of filth and snakes ? '' Those who want a second opinion on contemporary Indian society should watch `` Monsoon Wedding '' .
I so wanted to believe in this movie after the only form of mainstream comedy this country recognises is slapstick and stereotypes . Of course , it went completely the other way - let 's be cool and edgy - and came out the other side with little to show for it . I bet One Small Seed went nuts for this . I know SL did . None of the main characters have the comedic chops to pull it off . Even Danny K had better timing . I 'm actually being serious . Every time they introduced a bit character I kept thinking , `` Darn , this person should have been the lead ! '' . Independent does n't mean that the camera work needs to be horrible . Black and white did nothing for this movie - actually with such flat dialogue it hurt this even more by bringing the boredom into sharp relief . The black and white also was n't crisp . The composition was horrible . The use of music was horrible . Strangely enough I watched Little Miss Sunshine after this movie and the composition on that was superb - maybe that 's why the deficiencies in this movie stick out in my mind . I think Corne ( who was funnier than the leads before he even said anything ) was speaking to this movie and not David - see it and you 'll understand . I bet the guys who organise Oppikoppi were dismayed . One would think nothing happens there at all . I got the feeling it could have been filmed in someone 's back garden . I know regular guys who have much funnier , raunchier and wittier conversations than any of these `` comics '' . The dude who they hooked up with end was OK though . Guess SA comedy 's gon na stay in the stone age a little longer . Nice work guys .
The plot has already been described by other reviewers , so I will simply add that my reason for wanting to see this film was to see Gabrielle Drake in all her undoubted glory . Miss Drake has to be one of the sexiest , prettiest examples of `` posh totty '' to have been committed to celluloid . Of her era and ilk , only the equally exquisite Jane Asher comes close . What was it about actresses with musical brothers ? ( Nick Drake and Peter Asher ) For those who like me have admired Gabrielle , her scenes in this movie will not disappoint . She has a magnificent figure and none of it is left to the imagination here . As a whole , the movie is very poor and being of its time , very cheaply made . The song that covers the opening credits seems to go on forever and is appalling .
Not only does the film 's author , Steven Greenstreet , obviously idolize Michael Moore , but he also follows in his footsteps by using several of Moore 's Propaganda film-making tactics . Moore has expertise in distracting the viewer from this focus though , while Greenstreet is obviously less skilled here . Having been privy to all of the issues surrounding Moore 's speech at UVSC , I was disappointed to see that the major complaints of the community -- that Moore was being paid $ 40,000 of the State of Utah 's educational funds to basically promote John Kerry 's campaign and to advertise his own liberal movie -- were pushed to the background by Greenstreet while lesser issues were sensationalized . The marketing methods for this video have been equally biased and objectionable ... promoting the film by claiming that `` Mormon 's tried to kill Moore '' . Not only is this preposterous , but it defames a major religion that Greenstreet obviously has some personal issues with . I followed Moore 's visit very closely , and all of the major news agencies noted that Moore 's visit came and went without any credible security problems or incidents in Utah . Greenstreet has banked on this film to jump-start his film-making career to the point that he has even dropped out of film school to help accelerate this . This seems to have been a severe miscalculation though , since Moore 's visits to roughly 60 other colleges and Universities across the country in 2004 diluted interest for this rather common event . Greenstreet 's assumption that American audiences would be interested in this film due to the promoted religious and conservative angles does n't seem to be well founded . Even the name of the film , This Divided State , is somewhat of a misnomer since Utah voted overwhelmingly for Bush 's re-election and thus appears to be more politically unified than any other State . The division in the movie title seems more indicative of the gulf that exists in Greenstreet 's ideological differences with his religion and State . If anything , I find a humorous correlation between the religious angle of this supposed documentary and Woody Allen 's hilarious contention in Sleeper ( 1973 ) that , `` I was beaten up by Quakers '' .
This is a formula B science fiction movie , and the director made no bones about it . It is about a dragon who is restored to life by a scientific team . Everything done is stuff you 've seen many times before . It is a weak script , with no real characters . In fact , it is full of stereotype characters and situations . The director attacks this by just making it a formula movie , with no attempt to fool us , and that gives this movie a mild appeal , but it is n't something you 're likely to remember a while . It is best seen while you 're cooking , cleaning , working out . Sort of mindless fun . It has its place in entertainment , but it certainly is n't something you sit down with friends to watch , unless you 're all just drunk and do n't care . The mass rating of 3.2 is probably fair . I do n't think it is as crappy as most people , but I am surprised that some people in the postings thought this was spectacular . That really eludes me , as I see no attempt to even make this a memorable film .
Alright if you want to go see this movie just give me our money I 'll kick you were it counts and you 'll have the same amount of fun . I 'll even guarantee more fun . This movie once again shows what happens when you ca n't get any one else to hire your family and your forced to make your own movies . Same , I 'm going through puberty humor jokes , just dumber and grosser . This movie is really a disgrace to movie goers . They try to shock you into laughing because you ca n't believe the levels they have to stoop to make you laugh . So my offer above stands as
This is definitely the worst movie Adam 's ever done but at this point in his life , he was just happy to have a movie . There are 3 or 4 laughs in it but I used the fast forward button through some of it . Do n't waste your time . I only saw it because I wanted to see all of his movies , but it sucked .
This snarky , homophobic thing was dated in 1976 . It seems particularly mean-spirited now , filled with gay stereotypes , and characters that are meant to be laughed at , rather than with . Redd Foxx does his standard schtick , Michael Warren at least tries to bring humanity to a one dimensional character , and Pearl -- Pearl what were you thinking -- ? Pearl Bailey deserves far better .
I saw this film at the 2005 Toronto International Film Festival . Based on a novella by science- fiction author Brian Aldiss , this film attempts to tell the story of Tom and Barry Howe , conjoined twins who are plucked from their family by an impresario in order to form a rock band . Almost deliberately gimmicky , the film is also too clever by half ( if you 'll pardon the pun ) . By mixing genres , styles and moods , the directors ( whose previous film was the excellent documentary Lost In La Mancha ) lose their way pretty quickly . I was never sure whether I was meant to take it all seriously or not . Flashbacks , dream sequences , it was all just a bit much . Plus , the promised rock and roll just did n't move me . I was reminded a bit too much at times of Hedwig and the Angry Inch , a film I found original and moving . But in this case , the songs just were n't as good , nor were the main characters sympathetic . A more unfavourable comparison would be the similarly disappointing Velvet Goldmine .
Jim Carrey is one of the funniest and most gifted comedians in film today . With his hyperactive spontaneity and his rubber face he can just go crazy , and we love him for it . He has the ability to make mediocre comedies ( ala Ace Ventura ) , and turn them into decent comedic outings . Or , in the case of 'Liar Liar ' , make them some of the most hilarious contemporary comedies around . Carrey has also proven himself capable of tackling dramas . He was excellent in both 'Man on the Moon ' and 'The Truman Show . ' The guy is remarkable . Then comes 'Bruce Almighty , ' an ideal vehicle for Carrey , and a premise that should have worked ; Carrey , after complaining about God and how his life stinks , is enabled with God 's powers . However , the script is pure recycled garbage . Now , no matter how bad a script is , Carrey 's improvisation alone sometimes makes an unfunny scene funny . The problem is that there are very few opportunities for Carrey to be unleashed because so much of the comedy relies on silly special effects , only some of which are amusing . Carrey is rarely able to improvise because he has to work around the special effects . The writers apparently thought that all these special effects and superpower sequences were funny , because the rest of the movie is simply filler giving Carrey nothing else to work with besides a whiny character who is absolutely humorless . He seems more like a 5-year yearning for our attention , wanting the viewer to find what he is doing funny , when it 's really just annoying . I have always enjoyed Jennifer Aniston on 'Friends ' and she was superb in last year 's 'The Good Girl . ' She too has a gift for comedy , but with the script as linear as it is , she is simply given the part of the bitter girlfriend . She comes across as nagging , grumpy , and there is no chemistry between the two stars . 'Bruce Almighty ' should have been a comedy that works . But it does n't even have the guts to tackle the subject matter that it 's making fun of ; religion . A few minor giggles ( his internet is Yehweh ) , but instead it 's just turned into a comedic superpower comedy . Not to mention that it 's tone shifts from silly to heavy-handed , and even black comedy at times . The movie fails on nearly every level . That 's not to see it is entirely devoid of laughs , but it 's close . Any movie that feels the need to incorporate scenes of a dog peeing to get it 's laughs has problems . But hey , if you find pee jokes funny , go for it .
Let 's see , here are the `` highlights '' of The Brain Machine : 15 establishing shots of a pool and a house ; 15 establishing shots of a nondescript office building ; 5 countdowns by a bland technician ; 7 close-ups of a menacing guard ; and a myriad of technical babble to show us this is a high-tech experiment . Various posters have commented on the discrepancy between the copyright date of 1972 and the release date given on the DVD box of 1977 . That 's an easy one to explain . This dog simply sat on the shelf unreleased for five years , until someone dusted it off , thinking it fit in perfectly with the post-Watergate mood of distrust in government . After seeing The Brain Machine now , my only wonder is that it ever got released at all !
I remember this show being on the television when I was a kid back in the early 1990s , and there was this rage about kids with goofy leotards doing kung fu on one another and riding around in plastic dinosaurs . It was called power rangers . I remember that little kids would go around hitting each other and then the shirts and the stuff from the show was banned in many school districts all over the country because this show taught kids how to fight each other in solving their differences . I never really thought of this as a show , especially when better shows like The Tick were playing on Fox Kids . Most older teens always looked at power rangers in a ridiculous and scornful manner , and it 's not hard to wonder why . The footage is ridiculous at best . The colored rangers costumes look like stuff you would work out in and the dinosaurs look like plastic nonsense . Then you get into the acting , and of course those really laughable haircuts . All the guys run around with earrings on , half of them are wearing 90 's mullets , and they always wear the same clothes everyday , and then change into leotard wearing power rangers . The toys are especially ridiculous as well , and was the joke of many late night talk show hosts . And of course two of the worst movies ever made , and I do mean two of the worst movies ever made were based on this show with nearly every critic trashing both the films , and the shows it was based on . Power rangers is nothing more than a bad television commericial for especially bad toy merchandising . As an adult , I do n't look at it fondly , but rather as another embarrassment of 1990s kids shows , fashion and guys ' earrings .
Dil was a memorable movie that bring to the celluloid a great director like Indra Kumar . The movie followed with Beta , Ishq , Raja & Masti all of whom were superb . But then every successful director gives a few horrible movies alongwith some hits too . Pyare Mohan is one such movie . Though the comedies are told nicely but then they fail the viewer to laugh . Comparing with the kind of comedy movies being made today this is a dumb . If you really want to watch a movie and laugh , please do n't watch this . Because the pathetic comedy will make you cry only . In short , the movie is worth a miss .
The Choke starts as a rock band known as The Choke prepare for a gig at a nightclub called 'Club 905 ' owned & run by Guy Johnson ( Andrew Parker ) . Lead singer Dylan ( Sean Cook ) & guitar player Mike ( Jason McKee ) plan to tell the other band members , bass player London ( Brooke Bailey ) & drummer Nancy ( Tom Olson ) , that they are both going solo & their services wo n't be needed any longer . Once at the club Dylan prepares but Mike does n't show up & the gig turns into a disaster . Then just as the band think things could n't get any worse they find a dead body in the cellar , that all the doors have been locked so they ca n't get out & that they ca n't trust anyone as a mysterious killer begins picking them off one-by-one ... Produced & directed by Juan A. Mas The Choke is a standard by-the-numbers teen slasher that really does n't have anything going for it . The script by Jessica Dolan & Susannah Lowber ( not too many horror films out there penned by ladies ... ) has some surprisingly good character 's in it & some nifty dialogue but while it 's much better than a lot of modern shot on a camcorder type horror in that respect it 's so slow & boring that even a few interesting character 's ca n't come anywhere close to saving it . As one would expect all the usual teen slasher clichés are used , from the isolated location the victims ca n't escape from , the cast of good looking teenagers who keep splitting up , a few murders & a really poor twist ending that tries to mimic something like Scream ( 1996 ) & be surprising but does n't make a whole lot of sense when you think about it logically ( they could n't have done some of the things they were supposed to ) & to make matters even worse I guessed who the killer was fairly early on & even though I do n't want to boast I was spot on . Then there 's the fact that the makers of The Choke felt that it 's audience would be entertained by showing endless ( well it feels endless while watching it ) scenes of teenagers walking around dark corridors doing nothing in particular , I am sorry but there is only so many scenes like this that I can take before it starts to become tedious . The kill count is low , at first they all decide to stick together ( good idea ) but then they all just randomly decide to split up & go their separate ways ( bad idea when there 's a killer on the loose ) , the pace is lethargic , the kill scenes are unimaginative & to top it all off the twist ending is poor . Director Mas does alright , the film looks OK for the most part although there are the odd occasions where he uses some annoying post production editing technique like slow motion or frame skipping . The gore levels are n't really up to scratch , there 's some blood splatter , a guy with a hole in his chest , a few dead bodies & someone impaled on some metal poles . Most of the kills happen off screen with the axe kill at the end a good example of the film not actually showing anything . Since the film is about a rock band there 's quite a rock orientated soundtrack with some truly horrible , horrible rock songs used on it . I am sorry rock fans but to my ears this crap is just noise pollution . It 's not scary , there 's no real atmosphere & the lack of blood & gore is just inexcusable when the rest of the film is so bad . With a supposed budget of about $ 1,000,000 The Choke is well made with reasonable production values , it looks cheap to be sure but not as cheap as many low budget horror films look . Shot in a place called Spokane in Washington apparently . The acting is one of the films strongest points as it 's generally pretty good all round , I mean no-one is going to win an Oscar but it ai n't half bad . The Choke is a throughly routine Scream style teen slasher that has one of the weakest twist endings ever & a criminal lack of blood , gore , violence , nudity & dead bodies . I mean if a slasher has n't got any sex or gore then what 's the point ? Those are the only things that the average slasher is worth watching for , right ?
Zombi 3 starts as a group of heavily armed men steal a experimental chemical developed to reanimate the dead , while trying to escape the man is shot at & the metal container holding the chemical is breached . The man gets some of the green chemical on a wound on his hand which soon after turns him into a flesh eating cannibalistic zombie . Within hours the surrounding area is crawling with the flesh easting undead on the look out for fresh victims , Kenny ( Deran Sarafian ) & his army buddies find themselves in big trouble as they stop to help Patricia ( Beatrice Ring ) & her friend Lia ( Deborah Bergammi ) who has been pecked by zombie birds ( ! ) . General Morton is in charge of the situation & has to stop the zombie plague from spread throughout the whole world ! But will he & his men succeed ? This Italian produced film was to be directed by Italian zombie gore film auteur Lucio Fulci but the story goes he suffered a stroke & therefore could n't finish the film so producer Franco Gaudenzi asked second unit director Bruno Mattei & writer Claudio Fragasso to step in & complete the film . Apparently Mattei & Fragasso did more than just finish it they actually disregarded a lot of the footage Fulci shot & added a lot of their own & Zombi 3 ended up as nearly a straight 50/50 split . The script by Fragasso is an absolute mess , none of it is well thought out & is just as stupid as it gets . The scenes of zombie birds attacking people are not only technically inept but the whole idea is just absurd . The zombies themselves have no consistency whatsoever , look at the scene where Patricia is on the bridge & the zombies are slow as they shuffle along but then look at the scene earlier on where she was attacked by the zombie with the machete because that one runs around like it 's on steroids , then for no reasonable explanation about 10 minutes before the film finishes the zombies suddenly develop the ability to speak which also looks daft . There are so many things wrong with Zombi 3 , scene after scene of terribly thought out & ineptly directed action , awful character 's & really dull broken English dialogue which does n't make sense half the time . Then there 's the embarrassing scene where the zombie head inside the fridge suddenly develops the ability to fly through the air & bite someones neck , the scene when the guy 's in white contamination suits at the end are about to kill Kenny & Roger but instead of using their automatic rifles they decide to try & kill them by hand , even when Kenny picks up a gun himself they still refuse to use their rifles & when Kenny starts to shoot them all they still refuse to use their rifles & it 's one of the most ineptly handled scenes ever put to film & then there 's the end where Kenny takes off in the helicopter but ca n't rest it down on the ground for literally a few seconds to pick his buddy up & then a load of zombies suddenly spring up from under some piles of grass , what ? Since when did zombies hide themselves yet alone under piles of grass ? This all may sound 'fun ' but believe me it 's not , it 's a really bad film that is just boring , repetitive & simply does n't work on any level as a piece of entertainment except for a few unintentional laughs . It 's hard to know who was responsible for what exactly but none of the footage is particularly well shot . It has a bland lifeless feel about it & for some reason the makers have tried to bath every scene in mist , the problem is they clearly only had one fog machine & you can see that at one corner of the screen the mist is noticeably thicker as it is coming straight out of the machine & thinning out as it disperses across the scene . Since a lot of it is set during the day it does n't add any sort of atmosphere whatsoever & when they do get it right & the mist is evenly spread across the screen it just looks like they shot the scene on a foggy day ! The direction is poor with no consistency & it just looks & feels bottom of the barrel stuff . Even the blood & gore is n't up to much , there 's a gory hand severing at the start , a scene when something rips out of a pregnant woman 's stomach , a legless woman ( what actually took her legs off in the pool by the way & why did n't it take the legs off the guy who jumped in to save her ? ) & a few OK looking zombies is as gory as it gets . For anyone hoping to see a gore fest the likes of which Fulci regularly served up during the late 70 's & early 80 's will be very disappointed , there are n't any decent feeding scenes , no intestines , no stand out 'head shots ' & very little gore at all . Technically the film is poor , the special effects are cheap looking , the cinematography is dull , the music is terrible , the locations are bland & it has rock bottom production values . This was actually shot in the Philippines to keep the cost down to a minimum . The entire film is obviously dubbed , the acting still looks awful though & the English version seems to have been written by someone who does n't understand the language that well . Zombi 3 is not a sequel to Fulci 's classic zombie gore fest Zombi 2 ( 1979 ) , it has nothing to do with it at all apart from the cash-in title . I 'm sorry but Zombi 3 is an amateurish mess of a film , it 's boring , it makes no sense , it 's not funny enough to be entertaining & it lacks any decent gore . One to avoid .
This movie has a very hard-to-swallow premise , even by this genre 's standards . We are asked to accept not only that a record played backwards can bring a dead man back to life , but that the record also contains hidden messages aimed SPECIFICALLY at one kid , when the singer had no connection to the boy when he was alive , and of course no way of knowing at whose hands the record would end up . Anyway , the film is fun for a while , but eventually the silliness and the pointlessness reign supreme . If they were really trying to create a new Freddy-like horror icon , they were way off : the villain here has no personality , no motivation , and no variety . ( *1/2 )
I 've been willing to put up with a lot from late-spring/summer action fluff movies , but in general that 's been due to the fact that most of them have reasonable payoff ( i.e . cool special effects , interesting plot twists , comic value , Steve Buscemi , etc. ) . This movie , however , had none of this . All that we got was the cheap thrill of several minutes of Eva Longoria 's cleavage ( an issue of Maxim is cheaper than a movie ticket ) . There is an embarrassing lack of plot , suspense , back story , character development , continuity , etc . I would get into specifics , but quite frankly I 've already-maybe willingly-forgotten most of the movie . The entire time I was in the theater , I was kicking myself for not just spending the afternoon watching a 24 season on DVD . Save your money on this one , folks . Unless you really , really , really like Eva Longoria 's cleavage .
Well ... ... .in contrast to other comments previously written I have to say that the only good thing about this film is the fact that one guy in it looked a bit like Jason Donavon which reminded me of my youth . I have no idea how it won any awards , and although I 'm sure a great deal of effort went into making it it was all fruitless as the final outcome is one which screams of early 90 's foreign soap operas . The plot was non-existent , the cinematography was hopeless and the acting was on par with an a-level performance . It was unfortunately long and the sub-plots were incredibly unrealistic ... .for example ... .if your best friend slept with your ex-boyfriend of 6 years after only 2 weeks of being broken up you would not all remain the best of friends . It was all fantasy . That 's all ! Oh yeah , and the weird 90 's house/soft core indie was mind numbing !
The problem I find with this title is that I am not sure if the director is trying to produce a documentary or movie . A blend of the two genres just does n't work and that leaves the whole thing hung in the middle of nowhere . This is more so as the director has picked the most extremes of what is supposed to be happening around our everyday life making it an unconvincing documentary . If it is meant to be a thriller/drama this is too dull and monotonous . In either case , what is the moral or the message which the director is trying to convey to the audience ? That around us there are people who ill-treat others who are willing to be ill-treated ? That there are many crazy lunatics around us ? So ... ... ... .so what ?
After Life is a Miracle , I did not expect much . It 's hard to believe that these films were made by the same man as Do You Remember Dolly Bell , for instance . Zavet is two hours of silly antics with no story . The wild and unbridled humor of Underground seems to have degenerated into pathetic buffoonery here . It appears that Kusturica has been going steadily downhill since he started making life-affirming comedies , beginning with Black Cat , White Cat , which I think was great , but already had some disturbing signs of dementia . I liked his early films so much , and this is why it 's especially disappointing to see something like this . Let 's hope his next one will be great .
IF you are planning to see this movie , please reconsider . I do n't usually post my comments about something I 've seen on television , but this one was such a waste of my life that I needed to do something productive to get that bad taste out of my mouth . Critiquing this movie would take far too long as there are so many things wrong with it . I will just simply say , please do not ever see this movie . It was a complete waste of my time and it WILL be a waste of yours . Anyone that wrote a positive review of this movie is one of two things ; utterly inept , or working for the company that produced it . Again , I guarantee that you will indeed regret seeing this movie !
This was a disappointing film . The people seem to have no substance , the lead protagonist Martin Cahil has zero redemptive values , in fact everyone in it including Jon Voight epitomizes sleeze . I would not recommend this film to anyone . The violence is distasteful , though artfully done . The filming is to black , at least the print i saw fit this category . A disappointment .
On the surface , this movie would appear to deal with the psychological process called individuation , that is how to become a true self by embracing the so-called 'dark ' side of human nature . Thus , we have the Darkling , a classic shadowy devilish creature desperately seeking the company ( that is , recognition ) of men , and the story revolves around the various ways in which this need is handled , more or less successfully . However , if we dig a little deeper , we find that what this movie is actually about is how you should relate to your car like you would to any other person : - in the opening scene , the main character ( male car mechanic fallen from grace ) is collecting bits and pieces from car wrecks with his daughter , when a car wreck nearly smashes the little girl . Lesson # 1 : Cars are persons embodied with immortal souls , and stealing from car wrecks is identical with grave robbery . The wicked have disturbed the dead and must be punished . - just after that , another character ( Rubin ) buys a car wreck intending to repair it and sell it as a once-lost-now-found famous race-car and is warned by the salesman . Lesson # 2 : Just like any other person , a car has a unique identity that can not be altered nor replaced . In addition , there is the twist that Rubin actually sees a hidden quality in what most people would just think of as junk , but eventually that quality turns out to be a projection of Rubin 's own personal greed for more profit . Lesson # 3 : Thou shalt never treat thy car as a means only , but always as an end in itself . - then we have the scene where the main character is introduced to Rubin and , more importantly , Rubin 's car : The main character 's assessment of the car 's qualities is not just based on its outer appearance , but also by a thorough look inside the engine room . Lesson # 4 : A car is not just to be judged by its looks , it is what is inside that really counts . There is punishment in store for those who do not keep this lesson in mind , as we see in the scene where another man tries to sell Rubin a fake collector 's car . This scene by the way also underlines the importance of lesson # 3 . There are numerous other examples in the movie of the 'car=person'-theme , and I am too tired now to bother citing all of them , but the point remains ( and I guess this is what I 'm really trying to say ) that this movie is fun to watch if you have absolutely nothing else to do - or , if you 're a car devotee .
Brides are dying at the altar , and their corpses are disappearing . Everybody is concerned , but nobody seems to be able to figure out why and how this is happening , nor can they prevent it from happening . Bear with me . Bela Lugosi is responsible for this , as he is extracting spinal fluid from these young women to transfuse his ancient wife and keep her alive . Continue to bear with me . Finally , the authorities figure out that somebody must be engineering the deaths and disappearances , but of course , they ca n't figure out the improbable motive . Let 's just ignore the ludicrous pseudoscience and move on ... If you can get through the first twenty minutes of this mess , you will be treated to Lugosi whipping his lab assistant for disrespecting one of the brides he has murdered , explaining that he finds sleeping in a coffin much more comfortable than a bed , and other vague parodies of real horror films ( the kind with budgets and plots ) . Anyhoo - a female journalist follows her nose to the culprit ( and remarkably the inept police are nowhere to be seen ! ) , and then the fun really starts . The cinematography and acting are OK . There are a lot of well dressed , very good looking people in this film . The directing is fair , and the script is a little better than the material deserved . Nevertheless , this film fails to sustain the interest of all but the most hardened b-film fan . The best thing about it ... . It does eventually end , but not soon enough .
This is a sad film made for sad people . I was sitting in theaters tearing my hair apart , wanting to break the chairs in front of me as the movie spitted out one cringe-inducing scenes after another . And there were people roaring with laughter behind me , which made me wonder what kind of films these people must be watching to actually enjoy this horse-s**t. Nikkhil Advani has six stories with no plot and no interesting characters . The screenplay is dull , probably he was drunk when he was writing this film . There is no strong hold on any of these stories . Nothing new , nothing to hold the audience and filled with dialogs which you would have heard a million times before . One of the stories is about this couple not being able to have sex because of series of disasters taking place every time they want to do it . I mean seriously is this story really required ? Its not funny , not creative but only proves that Advani has no sense of comedy . Another of the stories ( which was probably the only story I was interested in ) is based on a man 's infidelity and that too ends in a lame age-old sati-savitri pati-parmeshwar crap . I have no idea what the Salmaan-Priyanka plot was all about . There was no issue in the plot for it to be a plot . She ca n't take Karan Johar 's film because she has to marry Salmaan ? ? Why ca n't she marry him and still take the film ? ? or does Advani and Priyanaka just want to prove the world that it is in fact true that female actors cant be successful if they are married or that they should not act in films once they are married ? ? With six actors in the film obviously Advani cant produce the film all by himself . So he makes full use of sponsors like the Times group , shamelessly promoting their Filmfare magazines . And also some jewelery brand which the women in the film absolutely seem to adore ! ! I come to IMDb to give it the worst rating and i am shocked to see posts praising the film . It just goes to show the sad state of bollywood and how star struck the fans are . With fans like these , movies like Salaam E Ishq will be continue to be made and worse probably be a hit .
This time we get a psycho toy maker named `` Joe Petto '' ( get it ? ) who makes living , evil toys that kill people . He goes after the family who has the bad luck of just simply living in the same house where he and his mutant robot son `` Pino '' ( again , get it ? ) used to live . Easily the worst ( and hopefully [ presumably ] the last ) in this semi - series , this one and the previous one look like soft core porn movies , but without the sex and nudity . It 's kind of like a low rent hybrid of `` Halloween III '' , `` Puppet Master '' , `` Dolls '' and bad home movies . Supposedly in 2000 they started to do a sixth chapter in the series , but it was abandoned and never completed . We can all only hope that it stays that way ... 1/2 a star out of ****
This movie had so much potential - a strong cast , a reasonably strong idea and clearly a decent budget . I 'm not sure where it all went wrong , but each of those elements was wasted . The story went nowhere , the characters were hollow to say the least and the result was a very boring , pointless , waste of a film . I hated it . Judging by the other votes , I 'm in the minority here and must be some sort of freak . However , I thought this movie was dreadful . I had high hopes , but was very disappointed . A particular disappointment was Jody Foster 's character . A very cocky `` fixer '' of sorts makes a nice idea . Jody was confident and sexy , but the character did nothing and went nowhere . Denzel Washington played the same character he always plays - enjoyable but nothing new .
I was thrilled to watch this movie expecting it to be the sequel to the cult classic `` Private Lessons '' which portrays the dream of any male teenager . `` Private Lessons II '' has NOTHING to do with the title I mention . It 's just a regular soft-core Cinemax flick that wo n't make a change in your life . There 's just one hot sex scene in a rooftop but that 's it . I watched this a long time ago but believe me , this is just a regular boring soft core flick . The women are hot but that 's not enough to rent or buy the movie . My advice is to watch this only if it airs on cable .
This film is exactly what you get when you really over stretch your abilities , it 's like someone who has just passed there driving test and then pitting them in a formula 1 Grand Prix ( not I might add , the US Grand Prix as everyone might pull out due to dodgy tyres and you might just win ) , that is how far short this film falls . Now do n't take this the wrong way , I love B-Movies , around half my collection is made of B-Movies but I do n't think there are enough letters in the alphabet to describe how bad this film is . First of the story ( for a B-Movie ) is n't that bad , it has potential there to make a B-Movie brand , were not talking Friday 13th potential , but potential none the less . But what really lets this film down is the acting , at not one second do I believe anything , it 's like watching QVC except the presenters on QVC tend to have a heavier tan . In summary I 'd like to say I 've seen worse films , but I ca n't .
I guess there are some out there that remember Nicole Eggert from her little girl days on such TV shows as T.J. Hooker , Charles in Charge , and Who 's the Boss ? You perverts , you ! Maybe you remember her from Baywatch when she grew up and got breast implants . No matter , you will certainly forget her in this supposed comedy about man-eating aliens . There are so many things that do not make sense and are never explained . How did she recognize the alien ? Why was the alien hot for paprika and cinnamon ? Why did n't the alien eat her ? You get the picture . Before the alien eats her boyfriend and assumes his identity , you get to see her in the body of Alex Meneses . This Mexican/Ukranian beauty is the only reason to watch this trash . Stay for the shower scene and the boyfriend , and go on about your business .
I saw this on the Sci-Fi channel . It came on right after the first one . For some reason this movie kept me interested . I do n't know why , stop asking . -- -SPOILERS -- - Okay ... It was cheesy how this guy got involved with the making of the movie . In the first movie , he had a `` reason '' to kill people , but in this sequal , half of the killings/attempted killings were basicly for no reason . Stanley killed the director due to creative differences , he captured the co-writer due to creative differences , but what was the deal with trying to kill off the cast ? No cast , no movie . He wanted it to `` look real when they died '' ? If this was supposed to be such a high budget movie , use the special effects , MAN . Of course like the first one , the captured girl gets away , and Stanley ends up getting messed up , and dissapears . Woooooow ( sarcasm ) . This movie HAD potential . And the saddest thing of all ... the really sad part ... I would watch a `` Cabin by the Lake 3 '' . Only because I like Judd Nelson , and he 's the only good part about this sequal .
1st watched 11/7/2002 - 2 out of 10 ( Dir-John Bianco ) : Pretty lame gangster movie about a Godfather-like family in Brooklyn who like to say four-letter words a lot and kill people . The only thing of interest here was their attempt to show the feds being a lot like the gang . This is the only attempt at good film-making . The rest of the movie was predictable , and cheaply-made . The quality of the photography on some of the scenes inside bars and floozy joints almost made you think there was a problem with your DVD player because of the bad contrasts and some of the actors were hard to hear at times because of the bad sound . The acting was pretty-much characatures of all your favorite gangsters from better movies with corny names like Vinnie ` Knuckles ' and Jimmie ` Tattoos ' , and the plot pretty much followed those patterns as well . So , go see a better gangster movie before you put your money out for this one .
I watched this movie at a Sneak Preview screening and I 'm glad I did n't pay for it . This movie is just disgusting . Its full of dick and fart jokes and takes no pride in the action sequences ( such as the shootout in `` Little Germany '' ) . I made a little list of things I enjoyed in the movie.. and a lot of which I did n't agree of . 1 . Dave Foley 's penis . 2 . The fart jokes . 3 . The Poop jokes . 4 . The Dude was a pussy . 5 . No Gary Coleman . 6 . The Talibans 7 . Again making fun of Bush.. WE GET IT HE 'S AN IDIOT.. move on . 8 . The Dude has blonde hair . 9 . The Plot . 10 . The killing of minors 11 . Uwe Boll was in it . 12 . Most of the cast were just outrages and out there . Now the ( few ) good ones 1 . The Dude uses a cat as a silencer like in the game . 2 . Lots of action . 3 . Crotchy made a return ( and a cameo of the maker of Postal ) 4 . Uhm.. I did n't have to pay for it . 5 . There are a few `` what the ef '' moments Boll did it again . He made another crappy game into movie adaption . Kudos to you , Mr Boll . 2/10
is seismic activity with little or negligible results on the surface . So in that respect , IMDb 's average voting score is spot on . A Spanish film made in the USA with third or fourth rate actors giving a kind of `` Falcon Crest '' dimension to the whole affair is a wonderful way to waste your time , as well as wasting the money of those who backed the project financially . The slugs involved are originals from Asturias , northern Spain , but as they were not allowed into the United States , plastic ones had to be made . However , chopping them up in the lettuce being used for making the evening dinner-time salad contrasts rather weirdly with Parisienne music as well as a rather tatty array of other US forgotten hits ( or misses if you have no idea who was responsible for composing it ) . The actors involved were also a rather tatty array , just suitable for a low-budget film which might be categorised as horrific , horrifying , horrible or just simple awful . As a result , the outcome is negligible on the surface , undetected underground , and about as attractive as Chapter 17,000 of Coronation Street or the latest news from Baghdad .
Do you know when you look at your collection of old , videotaped movies , and realize that there are some that you 've only seen once or twice , and you ca n't remember if they 're worth the time it takes to see them ? The Alibi is/was one of those films ; I found it , not long ago , and decided I might as well give it a chance . I 'm not entirely sure if I 'm happy with my decision ... on one hand , the film is really , really bad , on the other , now I have another free tape ... yeah , you get it . The plot is predictable and not in any way original . The pacing is bad . The acting is bad , but that 's not really surprising , seeing as the two leads are former soap-opera stars ... they 're used to overact . The characters are poorly written clichés . The film even manages to screw up the easiest damn way to impress me ( through film ) : court scenes . Even those do n't elicit one single emotion for or against any of the cardboard-thin characters . The film just has no real redeeming qualities whatsoever ... even the dialog is bad . The thing is , it 's so full of clichés that it 's laughable . And that 's the one thing that lifts this above a rating of 1/10 : the ( albeit unintentionally so ) comic relief of the many clichés and stereotypes . I did n't pay very much attention to the film , but just about every time I looked at the screen , there was something to laugh at . One final note : I considered using the line `` Tori Spelling ca n't act '' as a one line summary , but I guess everyone knows that , so I opted for the current one , seeing as it 's more informative . All in all , a thoroughly bad film , but not the worst if you 've got nothing else to do and if it 's on TV . Good for a few laughs , if you can sit through it . 3/10
So there 's an old security guard and a guy who dies and then there 's KEVIN , the world 's biggest wuss . Kevin wants to impress his incredibly insensitive , bratty , and virginal girlfriend AMY . As he returns from work to ... a random house ... he finds his `` friends , '' the sexually confusing red-shorted KYLE and the truly revolting sluttish DAPHNE . They are soon joined by Daphne 's boyfriend , the trigger-happy sex-crazed macho lunkhead NICK . And there 's the title creatures , horrid little dogeared puppets who kill people by giving them their heart 's desire . Kyle 's heart 's desire is to mate with a creepy , yucky woman in spandex . Nick 's heart 's desire is to throw grenades in a grade school cafeteria -- I mean nightclub . Kevin 's heart 's desire is to beat up a skinny thug with nunchucks . Amy 's heart 's desire is to be a disgusting slut . Daphne 's already a disgusting slut , so she does n't have a heart 's desire . Along the way a truly hideous band sings a truly odd song . The hobgoblins randomly go back to where they came from then blow up . `` Citizen Kane '' can not hold a candle to this true masterpiece of American cinema .
I purchased this movie at a car boot sale , so I was not expecting it to be a horror movie on the same level as A Nightmare on Elm Street ( 1984 ) or The Hills Have Eyes ( 1977 ) but I thought that it would still be fairly enjoyable to watch . However , it proved to be not at all enjoyable , but instead the acting and the general movie was mock-able , such as the ways the the 'unsees killer ' murders his victims and how all of the people killed just happen to be young blonde women . It was a stereotypical horror film . I say this because of the following reasons : 1 ) Three blonde women in danger , the majority get killed . 2 ) One survives by crawling around in the dark while being chased by the killer . 3 ) Surprise surprise , help arrives in the form of a shotgun ! By using three simple points , I have saved you two odd hours by summarising this poor excuse of a horror movie , so you are now lucky enough to not have to watch it .
My first attempt at watching this ended in 8 minutes , roughly after the TV report scene , which I could n't handle . It went approximately like this : Reporter 1 : Hmm , there 's a pyramid in our skies . Reporter 2 : I think it 's aliens . *awkward silence* Reporter 1 : In other news ... A few days later I watched it to the end , and it was n't as horrible as I 've imagined , but there are serious problems with this . About half of the plot can be easily discarded . And the other half should be expanded to explain the background story or something . What use are the detective , the eugenics people , and the monsters which are disposed of momentarily by Horus ? More amusing was the monopoly scene . `` We 're all powerful `` Gods '' , who have lived for aeons , and of all the games in the multiverse we happen to play monopoly . '' Monopoly ? Monopoly ? ! Even Erich von Dainiken looks coherent , compared to that . The other half is terribly lacking . What did our protagonist do to get himself cryo-frozen ? Why was there no big event when he was released at the end ? He had those pesky followers , remember ? What happened to normal humans ? What 's the deal with the masked guy ? How did the blue-haired girl appear ? What 's with her eyesight ? Etcetera , etcetera . Visually it 's OK , more or less , if you disregard the Egyptian Gods looking like walking turds with rotweiller heads .
This movie tells the tender tale of a demented scientist who , after his fiance is decapitated , goes around ogling strippers so that he can find a suitable body to attach her noggin to . Everyone in this movie exudes more slime than a snail , particularly our protagonist .
This is probably the worst movie I have ever seen , ( yes it 's even worse than Dungeons and Dragons and any film starring Kevin Costner . ) Chris Rock looked very uncomfortable throughout this whole film , and his supporting actors did n't even look like they were trying to act . Chris Rock is a wonderful stand-up comedian , but he just ca n't transfer his talent to this film , which probably only has two strained laughs in the whole picture . If you have n't watched this film yet , avoid it like the plague . Go do something constructive and more interesting like watching the weather channel or watching paint dry on a brick wall . For Chris ' efforts I give it a 2/10 !
Wow ! Only a movie this ludicrously awful could inspire the similar `` Showgirls . '' I mean where to begin ? The indescibably horrid theme song ? Pia Zadora 's non-expressions throughout the movie ? The fact that despite being set in Los Angeles , aka `` land of the casting couch '' EVERY single man ( and woman ! ) is fawning all over themselves to sleep with Pia Zadora , by any contrived means necessary ? Or what about the fact that every person in the movie is totally unsympathetic because they 're either mind-numbingly stupid ( Pia ) or obvious despicable sleazeball ( everyone else ) ? And given that this flick was written by actual `` screenwriters ( sorta ) , it shows a shocking lack of understanding of the movie-making industry ( who the Hell would admire and kiss up to a SCREENWRITER ? ) But it 's ( unintentionally ) funny as hell though . The `` breakdown '' scene alone will have you giggling , and after seeing the climatic `` I 'm not the only one who had to **** her way to the top '' scene at the `` Awards '' ( all done in the usual bargain-basement acting level we expect from such quality thespians as Pia ) , I sincerely hope that our dear Pia actually reused that speech when she `` won '' her Golden Globe . It 's fitting and that would totally make my day . Anyway , if you 're a fan of bad , tashy camp , give this otherwise tacky movie a try .
Except for the Brady Variety Hour , this was some of the hokiest television I 've seen in a while . The video production qualities were n't too bad , but the overall look and feel were unmistakeably early 80 's . And Marie Osmond looks like she did battle with the Avon Lady.. and lost big time . WAY too much eyeliner . It was kind of embarrassing to watch veterans Danny Kaye and Eric Severeid take part in this . Even more interesting was watching Alex Haley talk about the African Pavillion in World Showcase that would be opening 'in about a year . ' As of this writing it is 17 years later and it has n't opened yet ( Unless you count Disney 's Animal Kingdom . ) All in all though , for all the shortcomings , this still an interesting visual piece of Disney history .
`` When a small Bavarian village is beset with a string of mysterious deaths , the local ( magistrate ) demands answers into ( sic ) the attacks . While the police detective refuses to believe the nonsense about vampires returning to the village , the local doctor treating the victims begins to suspect the truth about the crimes , '' according to the DVD sleeve 's synopsis . An inappropriately titled , dramatically unsatisfying , vampire mystery . Curiously , the film 's second tier easily out-perform the film 's lackluster stars : stoic Lionel Atwill ( as Otto von Niemann ) , skeptical Melvyn Douglas ( as Karl Brettschneider ) , and pretty Fay Wray ( as Ruth Bertin ) . The much more enjoyable supporting cast includes bat-crazy Dwight Frye ( as Herman ) , hypochondriac Maude Eburne ( as Aunt Gussie Schnappmann ) , and suspicious George E. Stone ( as Kringen ) . Mr. Frye , Ms. Eburne , and Mr. Stone outperform admirably . Is there another movie ending with a mad rush to the bathroom ? Magnesium sulfate Epsom salts it 's a laxative ! **** The Vampire Bat ( 1933 ) Frank Strayer ~ Dwight Frye , Melvyn Douglas , Maude Eburne
I 'm a fan of both Shakespeare and MST3K , so I waited anxiously to see this episode . I 'll comment on the movie first , then the MST3K episode . The recipe for this movie : take talented actors , rich and beautiful Shakespeare material , and a $ 1.25 budget . Mix well , then drain of all life and movement , until dull and lifeless . Serve cold in a big , plain stone cauldron . Movie , I give 3 out of 10 , because the actors at least deserve a little bit of credit . Okay , now the MST3K episode . I 'll admit it , the first time I saw it , I fell asleep halfway through . I understand that was the reaction of several other veiwers as well . However , when I watched it a second time , I realized that there was a whole host of intelligent references and good lines I missed the first time around . The trick with this episode is : listen carefully ! It takes a couple of viewings to catch each line . Give it a second chance , and You 'll see what I mean . MST3K Episode : 7 1/2 out of 10 .
Bob Clampett 's 'Porky 's Poor Fish ' is a so-so cartoon populated by appalling puns and one or two nice moments . Set in Porky 's Fish Shoppe , 'Porky 's Poor Fish ' occupies an uncomfortable area between a standard black 'n ' white Porky cartoon and one of the books-come-to-life Merrie Melodies that were popular at that time . Typically of many of the early Porky cartoons , Porky is far from the star , appearing only in a rather stilted opening musical number and the climax of the film . For the rest of the time the star is a scraggly cat who sees the fish shop as an opportunity for a free meal but gets more than he bargained for . Unfortunately , the audience gets far less than they bargained for . As was sometimes the case in the books-come-to-life series , the spotlight is thrown on punning signs which could have worked just as well in a non-animated medium . Laughs are scarce and , while the cartoon is just about saved by Clampett 's energetic direction , there is very little at all to recommend 'Porky 's Poor Fish ' over any of the other below-par early Porky cartoons .
On the 26th of September 1983 a short dumpy 60 year old woman stood trial for the attempted murder of Leonie Haddad , a lady whose husband had recently died and had agreed to take in a lodger who came via a housing authority for the elderly . Haddad was not made aware that her new lodger had , in fact , come fresh from The Patton State Mental Hospital where she had been incarcerated for an inexplicable knife attack on a married couple three years previously . Haddad soon realised that something was 'rotten in Denmark ' when the woman began to lock herself in the bathroom with a tape recorder reciting prophesies about ' seven Gods ' . Haddad 's fears were confirmed one night when she awoke to find her lodger sitting astride her chest holding a bread knife announcing that `` God has inspired me to kill you '' . Haddad managed to knock her assailant out with a telephone but not before she had lost a finger and suffered deep lacerations to her face and chest . It was a miracle she survived . The lodger was judged to be innocent by reason of insanity but sent , kicking and screaming , back to the laughing academy . Ten years later she was released and found that she was now a celebrity ; but not for the brutal attacks on her innocent victims , but for her incarnation of 25 years earlier when she was known as the 'Queen of the Curve 's , the 'Tennessee Tease ' and 'Miss Pin Up Girl of the World ' - the Notorious Bettie Page . Director Mary Harron , mainly known for 'American Psycho ' takes us back to the glory days of a legendary cheesecake and bondage model ( played solidly enough by Gretchen Mol ) who inadvertently wrote the blue print for fetish iconography and whose influence can be detected in everything from comic books to catwalks . T.N.B.P is day-glo fun ride through an evocative depiction of the 1950 's where Page , with the familial help of good intentioned boyfriends and photographers , becomes the number one star of pocket sized men 's glossies with titles like Wink , Tab and Parade . Her real dream of movie stardom evades her and a brush with the authorities over obscenity charges in 1957 is the inciting incident which leads her to retire from modelling and give herself to God . The overall style of the film is light and frothy and only darkens momentarily with an allusion to her father 's incestuous attentions and a sexual assault which inexplicably appears to have no discernible effect on her . Mol plays Page as she seems in her photographs , happy , carefree and fun - even the bondage shots betray little more than a good humoured incomprehensibility . The film ends on the upbeat with Page cheerfully handing out bibles in a park with no indication of the real life unhappy marriages , personal tragedy and decent into murderous insanity which lay before her ; avoiding what I think is the essential core of Page 's story - rebirth and resurrection . Having emerged from a decade of incarceration Page found that her cult had been in the ascendance since the mid 1980 's and that she had become a huge underground icon , during which , many were asking `` whatever happened to Bettie Page '' . Her 'mysterious ' disappearance fed the fires of any number of conspiracy theories only adding to the allure of her legend . When the world 's media finally caught up with her she gave no hint of her darker past and she was soon giving interviews for magazines , T.V and being photographed at Playboy parties with the likes of Pamela Anderson and the equally tragic Anna Nicole Smith . She found that she was now more famous than she ever was in her 'glory years ' but in the glare of this 'resurrection ' it was only a matter of time before the full story would come to light . The only notorious thing about The Notorious Bettie Page is they left out the part when she became truly notorious .
After reading the book , which had a lot of meaning for me , the movie did n't give me any of the feeling which the book conveyed . This makes me wonder if Kaufman even liked this book for he successfully made it into something else.Either that or he is simply bad . Most importantly where is the lightness ? ! From the very first scene , music drownes out most of the dialogue and feeling , and this continues right through the movie . I think the makers thought that by having upbeat music playing right through the movie , this would make the story feel light- however they have completely failed here . Instead the music manages to give everything that 'movie feel ' , in a way dramatising events so that we linger on them , so that everything actually feels heavy . Another example of the how this adaptation fails is by embellishing the story line making it more dramatic . In the movie we see Franz passing Tomas on the street , who is on his way to see Sabina . The introduction of this chance meeting/passing , which im sure did n't happen in the book , gives Tomas ' story more significance than it does make it light . There are many other examples where the continuity of the story has been changed , imo for the worst , however this might have been done because the book simply does n't convert well into a movie , such is Kundera 's style . This makes we wonder if all the generous reviewers on this site were writing with their book AND movie experience in mind rather than writing about just the film . A film which is as long as it is uncompelling . For those who have n't read the book yet I recommend just reading that . For those who have , I have to say you will just be wasting your time and probably end up here writing similar stay-clear warnings .
There is a word for this sort of film , and that word is `` drivel . '' It was drivel when it was a VHS rental , and it 's drivel on satellite re-runs now . It might fool you , because it has 2 moderately well-known names in Kistofferson and Henriksen , reasonable soundtrack music , and nice Monument Valley scenery . It also has some curly haired woman who fights a lot . If that 's all you want from a movie , then maybe this will keep you happy . It 's still drivel , though .
I do n't think anyone sitting down to view this film would be expecting anything remotely appearing like a classic ghost story but you have to ask yourself when it 's over if you were ever scared . This does n't really work on that level but the cast does try hard and the film does n't tack on one of those happy endings . Story is about an American couple who travel to Kyoto , Japan so that Ted Fletcher ( Edward Albert ) can write a book and he brings along his wife Laura ( Susan George ) and their daughter Amy ( Amy Barrett ) . Their friend Alex Curtis ( Doug McClure ) who works at the American Consulate helps them find a house to live in and he finds one that is haunted . About 140 years earlier in the same house a Samurai found his wife cheating on him and he kills both of them and then commits suicide . Their ghosts still inhabit the house and when the Fletcher 's arrive it does n't take long before strange things start happening . *****SPOILER ALERT***** At times the ghosts inhabit the bodies of the Fletcher 's and they start to act like the Japanese people that they were before and Laura starts to flirt with Alex which leads to an affair . Meanwhile , Ted starts behaving more strict and after he pours soup down the throat of Amy he goes to ask a Monk for help . Unfortunately the ghosts get Ted , Laura , and Alex to play out their death scene like it happened 140 years earlier . This film was directed by Kevin Connor who is known as a good television director but he has made horror and science fiction films before and has worked with McClure on some of them . While this never comes close to being scary or developing atmosphere it does have two things in it that I liked . First , it does n't have one of those sappy endings where the couple embrace after defeating the demons . Instead , it ends in a very bloody fight where everyone succumbs to the evil of the ghosts . Secondly , it has Susan George in the cast ! I 've always been a fan of hers even though she has appeared in mostly schlock but her performances are always top notch . Also she usually appears nude which she does here in two separate scenes and while she does n't have classic features she does have a unique tomboy like look about her and it 's one of the reasons why she was so popular . But after appearing in silly films such as this I think it led to her getting out of the business or working only sporadically . This is n't a bad film but it 's never convincing and watching the ghosts scurry around when the Monk gives an exorcism is practically worthy of a giggle or two . The bottom line is that this is silly and I hope George decides to resume her career .
This is not a good movie . It 's disjointed , all the acting is bad , and has a lame story you 've seen a thousand times done much better else where . Not to mention you can see every plot point coming from a mile away . Worst of all , no one bothered to tell Lonette Mckee she ca n't sing . But who cares , she 's sooooo damn good looking . But I digress , nothing new here . Bottom-line , hot girl group gets taken advantage of , some one gets hooked on drugs , someone gets hooked on a guy , some one gets the hell out , and then the horrible stuff happens . Surprise , surprise . Welcome to the music business . I ca n't believe so many people out there think this is a good movie . So many of you seem to want to use a sliding scale when it comes to grading Black Movies . I do n't play that ! If you want to support these films by going to see them - great ! If you enjoyed it - super ! To each his own . But do n't try to tell me it was good . Pleeeease ! I wish colored folks would not fawn over these kind of movies just because they feature black actors . Wan na see a good African-American movie ? See Love Jones . Ray . Or The Color Purple . Those would be great movies no matter what the color of the actors skin . Why ? Because they told compelling stories with great acting , that made you feel something long after you left the theater . Just because it 's our experience does not automatically make it a good film . It 's only good -- when it 's good . Period .
this film was shrouded in scandal for so long that it became a very sought after item ... the outrage , the mystery , etc . it had everything to be a great piece of film-making , but ultimately fails in every extent . it 's a terribly bad comedy , a pathetic horror movie , a lame erotic film . the 2 disc DVD includes a gorgeous booklet with stills , interviews , essays on bestiality , etc . as well as an extensive interview with the more-than-pretentious director . for those who have heard about it but never seen it , the package will seem fantastic until one actually sees the film . disc 1 contains the edited film , badly translated to English but with good visual quality . disc 2 contains the director 's cut , in an awful transfer , in french . what can I say about the actual beast ? a hand puppet of Kermit the frog would have been more effective and shocking .
With the rising popularity of the now iconic Godzilla series , like with any hit cinema event , there was inevitably going to be a crowd of imitators trying to cash in on the success on the big lizard . With Godzilla came the dawn of a rising popularity of the kaiju ( giant monster ) genre . Many sought after success ; a few gained it . One of the few that not only profited , but garnered popularity was Gamera , a giant turtle that could breathe fire in and out and fly by spewing flames from the sockets in his carapace as a means of jet propulsion . But unlike Godzilla , Gamera was marketed as a friend to all children , later fighting other monsters to save kids in peril , and thus Gamera became very popular amongst the kiddies . Unfortunately , that 's about the only audience mainstream that the original Gamera series will have any appeal to . While the new Gamera movies directed by Shusuke Kaneko are marvelous , revolutionary monster movies , the original series , including the original , is nothing special . The first Gamera movie , titled in Japan as `` The Giant Monster Gamera '' was clearly a Godzilla want-to-be . Even though the movie was produced in the era of color films , it was shot in black-and-white . Why ? To imitate the first Godzilla movie from the 1950s . Gamera also attacks Tokyo . Because Godzilla attacked Tokyo in the first movie . I do n't know much about the Japanese version , for the version I am familiar with the Americanized version , where scenes were cut and new footage with American actors were inserted ( is it coincidence that the same thing happened with the first Godzilla film ? ) Now whether this adds or takes away from the film , I can not say . But `` Gammera the Invincible '' is really nothing more than a ponderous bore that just plods along like the big turtle himself . `` Gammera the Invincible '' is a very routine-orientated movie . The characters are from a stock of science-fiction standards , the story is inane , the monster has no real motive for attacking civilization , the acting is laughable , and so on and so forth . The only thing that differentiates it from the Godzilla series is the ending of the movie , but that 's also a detractor since the plan that eventually halts Gamera 's rampage is completely phony and ridiculous . Now the rest of the movie and many other entries in this genre also fit that description , but this is a direfully stodgy monster movie . And although Shusuke Kaneko would later transform Gamera into an interesting monster with his trilogy in the 1990s , in the original series , Gamera was not an attractive screen presence . He was neither scary nor sympathetic . He just waddles around like a toddler , swaying with each step , and knocks miniature sets over . As usual , everybody wants to destroy Gamera except for a little kid ( Yoshio Uchida who was lazily left out of the credits though he plays a 'central ' role ) who thinks Gamera is a nice turtle . Most movies in the genre that `` Gammera the Invincible '' is a part of are easy targets for criticism and this one is subject to extra pressure . Even in the company of many other Godzilla-imitators , this Gamera film is not a particularly good entry . And as far as my cinema experience goes , the rest of the movies in the series are either just as boring or worse . Like Godzilla , Gamera would be filmed in color and go on to fight monsters . And like Godzilla , he 'd get cheaper and cheaper with every film until it was time to revive the series and make him serious again . It 's peculiar . Usually I recommend people to stick with the originals and pass on the remakes . But in the case of Gamera , my verdict is just the opposite . I strongly encourage people to watch the 1990s Gamera trilogy directed by Shusuke Kaneko and to skip over the original series unless interested . The new films are inventive , well-made , exciting , and above all , fun . The original series is a long stream of boredom .
This story is about the romantic triangle between a nth . African male prostitute , a French transsexual prostitute ( Stephanie ) and a Russian waiter who speaks no French and never seems to shave . As a film it is dull , dreary and depressing , shot either on foggy , overcast winter days or in badly lit interiors , where everyone is bathed in a weird blue luminescence . And yes , I know , it 's because the white balance was out . Everyone is pale and downcast and looks haggard , shabby and dirty . Bodies are bony and shot in such closeup that they look quite ugly and unappealing . Moles , greasy hair . Yuk . Bad news in a film where people spend a lot of time either naked or having sex . And the story ? Well , Stephanie 's mother is dying . All three characters go back to Stephanie 's home village where , through a bunch of flashbacks to desolate countryside and predictably dingy interiors , we see a bit of Stephanie 's childhood as a boy called Pierre . The mother dies . Well ... and that 's about it , really . Character development is kept to a minimum , as is the denouement of the story . I suppose the storyline is not linear ( it would explain a lot of non sequiteurs ) but really , after paying my seven euros I do n't feel like having to construct the film myself : that 's what the director takes my money for . To expect me to join the story telling process and get my hands dirty , so to speak , is asking way too much . This film is a heap of pretentious rubbish made , above all , from a desire to epater les bourgeois ( ie shock the straights ) . I can see how it was a shoo-in for the Berlin Film Festival , and I can see why it got nowhere .
I do n't know how this movie received so many positive reviews on this site ! I 'm a big vonnegut fan and am very familiar with the story this Showtime original film bastardized beyond belief , but even if I was n't , the poor acting , VERY poor casting ( Sean Astin as the brilliant , athletic , and all around individual , Harrison ? ? The guy 's completely generic ! ) and sub-standard writing rendered this tripe barely watchable . Someone pointed out how cute that Maculay Culkin line was . If you read that and thought that was pure comic brilliance ( sadly , it probably was the most INTENTIONALLY funny part of the movie ) , maybe you 'll like this movie . But if you 're a Vonnegut fan or not completely insane , do n't see it . Please .
I am dumbfounded that I actually sat and watched this . I love independent films , horror films , and the whole zombie thing in general . But when you add ninga 's , you 've crossed a line that should never be crossed . I hope the people in this movie had a great time making it , then at least it was n't a total waste . You 'd never know by watching it though . Script ? Are you kidding . Acting ? I think even the trees were faking . Cinematography ? Well , there must 've been a camera there . Period . I do n't think there was any actual planning involved in the making of this movie . Such a total waste of time that I wo n't prolong it by commenting further .
Oh yes , Sakura Killers is a goofy , horrible ninja movie , make no mistake . But it 's also an incredibly enjoyable one . This is largely thanks to the awesome presence of one Chuck Connors , who is billed as starring in the movie but really only shines in a few scenes . I suppose he 's supposed to be sort of an Obi Wan Kenobi type ( `` The tough ninja-buster '' , the box copy exclaims ) but his 'wisdom ' is laughable . `` Move without thinking '' ? ? ? My friend says this is the sign of mental retardation , not of supreme concentration . But really , his two aides , Sonny and Dennis , have such horrible dialogue that 'Brooklyn ' , as we call The Colonel , tends to shine in comparison . Especially watch for Dennis ' logic regarding the 'genetic splicing ' the Sakura are involved with . If you know anything about cloning you will die laughing . And yes , this is a major plot point , folks . A terribly fun movie , Sakura Killers is a hard-to-find gem . I wo n't spoil the 'trick ' ending for you either , except that it 's a perfect set up for a Sakura Killers 2 . Too bad Chuck Connors died . : - ( Because he does have a the smoothest ways of blowing away ninjas .
I do n't know what else to say about this horrible movie that has n't already been said . Honestly I have only myself to be angry with . I should have know better when I saw the title of this movie that it would be a horrible piece of crap , but I loved War Games so I indulged my whim . I will live to regret that decision the rest of my life . From the very start when the government people explained that their super computer could determine who a terrorist was just by how well they played a video game I knew I was in for a ride though the land-that-good-writing-forgot . The list of very , very , very bad plot lines , dialog , and acting is so long I would crash IMDb if I tried to post it . To those people who said that they have seen worst movies than this one please tell me . I am actually curious to see something that could top this steaming pile of horse dung .
the intention the directors has for this films are quite honorable , but his history of his productions did get me aware that this might not get much to the core like other film makers would do it . keeping his great 30 days TV series in mind but also counting in his MTV production `` i bet you will '' that opposes his seriousness in any of the matters he documents and also counting in his rather disappointing production `` supersize me '' i did not had my hopes up high . sadly enough this movie disappointed me none the less . as with `` supersize me '' after a while i did ask myself what exactly the point of all this was . the main statement gets clear enough after half an hour but the rest of the playtime gets filled with rather pointless stuff and re-repeating stuff that were already shown in this way or another earlier in the movie , so it wears out and gets extremely boring towards the end .
After a long period in the space , looking for the remains of planet Krypton , Superman ( Brandon Routh ) returns to Earth . He misses Lois Lane ( Kate Bosworth ) , who got married and has a son with Richard White ( James Marsden ) . Meanwhile , Lex Luthor ( Kevin Spacey ) plots an evil plan , using crystals he stole from the Fortress of Solitude , to create a new land and submerge the USA . After so many delightful movies of Superman with the unforgettable Christopher Reeve , or TV shows like `` Lois and Clark '' ( and Teri Hatcher ) or `` Smallville '' , a great expectation was created for the return of Superman in this Bryan Singer 's version . Unfortunately , the awful story is too long and boring , with many unnecessary parts , lack of emotion and overrated in IMDb . In addition , the romance between Lois Lane and Superman is something shamefully ridiculous . The twenty-two years old actress Kate Bosworth is wrongly miscast , playing the role of a mature reporter and experienced mother of a five years old boy . Brandon Routh is two years younger than Tom Welling , who plays a teenager Clark Kent in `` Smallville '' . The character of Parker Posey , Kitty Kowalski , is actually a silly caricature . Last but not the least and in spite of being a terrific Lex Luthor , Kevin Spacey is forty-five years old , therefore older and older than the rest of the lead cast . The corny conclusion looks like a soap opera and is terrible . My vote is four . Title ( Brazil ) : `` Superman Returns ''
Years ago , when I was a poor teenager , my best friend and my brother both had a policy that the person picking the movie should pay . And , while I would never pay to see some of the crap they took me to , I could n't resist a free trip to the movies ! That 's how I came to see crap like the second Conan movie and NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN ! Now , despite this being a wretched movie , it is in places entertaining to watch -- in a brain dead sort of way . And , technically the stunts and camera-work are good , so this elevates my rating all the way to a 2 ! So why is the movie so bad ? Well , unlike the first Rambo movie , this one has virtually no plot , Rambo himself only says about 3 words ( other than grunts and yells ) , there is a needless and completely irrelevant and undeveloped `` romance '' and the movie is one giant ( and stupid ) special effect . And what STUPIFYINGLY AWFUL special effects . While 12383499143743701 bullets and rockets are shot at Rambo , none have any effect on him and almost every bullet or arrow Rambo shoots hits its mark ! And , while the bad guys are using AK-47s , helicopters and rockets , in some scenes all Rambo had is a bow and arrows with what seem like nuclear-powered tips ! ! The scene where the one bad guy is shooting at him as he slowly and calmly launches one of these exploding arrows is particularly made for dumb viewers ! It was wonderfully parodied in UHF starring Weird Al . Plus , HOT SHOTS , PART DEUX also does a funny parody of the genre -- not just this stupid scene . All-in-all , a movie so dumb and pointless , it 's almost like self-parody !
This film turned up on local TV here in South Africa recently and I thought that I 'd warn even those who enjoy watching B grade bad movies ( which I do ) that this is not even amusing . The plot concerns a couple visiting a house in the country . Some strangers appear and ... . The problem is that most of the film , obviously shot in the early seventies , consists of extreme wide shots of people walking , in real time and awfully slowly , from A to B . This makes the film tedious in the extreme and the expected blood and gore payoff just never happens . I am really curious - how many people have actually watched this from beginning to end ?
Another case of a decent DVD case betraying the shot-on-video quality of the film . It was n't that bad . Rochon does a serviceable job and Damn ! the cast is good looking . I 've never seen that many musclebound guys hang out together on a regular basis . This movie really wanted to make you think Rochon was the killer , but it was not to be . My biggest problem with the film was that by the end , I did n't much care who was the killer , and the real killer made little sense , since it was out of the blue and the filmmakers were thinking 'ha , betcha did n't see that one coming , sucker ! ' . Yeah , there were continuity errors about ( mainly with ms. Rochon 's ever-changing wardrobe ) , but for an indie slasher it 's not that bad . I was pretty sure at the beginning it was just a thinly veiled excuse for girls to go topless , but that was just a gimmick . The dialog was overly think and painful at times . Just do n't have high expectations going into this , and it wo n't be that bad . And Lloyd Kaufman 's cameo is wonderfully understated .
I 'm sorry but this is just plain pathetic . The little girl was a brat , their were no enjoyable characters and the plot sucked . Besides it was n't even a gator as the film would like us to believe . If you check out any complete guide to reptiles you will find that it really is a Crocodile , not a gator . Obviously they did n't hire a real animal expert or they would know that the creature is a croc . It is a sad excuse for a movie . Especially the ending . I nearly fell asleep with this one .
I was unsure whether or not Andy Sidaris could repeat his success with the cinematic hit `` Malibu Express . '' With his film Fit to Kill he has proved that Sidaris is a serious filmmaker and not just a one-shot director . The plot written by Sidaris , which was ungratefully passed up by the Academy , is a complex screenplay involving many unseen twists and turns . The main characters composed work for a sexually based radio station known as KSXY . Cleverly , KSXY is actually their secret headquarters . In `` Fit to Kill '' they confront their long-time nemesis Kane , who is trying to steal one of Russia 's most prized diamonds . A well-written screenplay is not all , excellent acting by the cast helps to ensure this film as a cult classic . Panned by the critics and the box office , this film will be appreciated in years to come . It is now suffering the same fate as Clockwork Orange and Taxi Driver did , but in the future will undoubtly become recognized . I am disappointed no critic circles have recognized Andy Sidaris 's trademark filmmaking . The costumes , the special effects , all help to compliment this already beautiful piece of filmmaking . It may do you best to ignore the dismal 3 rating on this film and go out and rent it for yourself . My personal rating is 10/10 . The drama is as thick as the blockbuster Runaway Bride , and the action better or equal to the cinematic masterpiece Last Action Hero . Andy , keep up the good work .
OK - I ADORE this film ... I will credit this movie - alone - for making me such a die-hard horror fanatic . I could never watch this movie alone . I 've also heard many many stories of the effect it had in it 's original release at the theatres , on its viewers . Incredible masterpiece ... . Horrible , psychological stuff scares the pants off me .Oh bless their hearts , whoever made this awesome film . I love it . I thought the whole film was decent and interesting . This movie is SO scary - this is the scariest movie I have ever seen in my life ! Not that what happens in the film and the idea of the film are not scary enough , but what always got me - was Brendan 's fabulous acting . Best horror film EVER . Nothing can ever be this scary again . Halloween viewing at its evilest .
When I was a kid in the 50 's and 60 's anything connected with Disney was by definition great . What happened ? They are able to get any actors and actresses they want , the best of their time . But somehow Disney manages to screw things up in spite of their abundant resources . Disney can afford the best writers , the best producers and directors , but still ... they screw things up ! This movie is crap . The sad thing is that I suspect Disney in their arrogance does not even know when a movie is good or bad . It is only due to the talent of the actors that I can even give it a 3 of 10 .
Watching this film for the action is rather a waste of time , because the figureheads on the ships act better than the humans . It 's a mercy that Anthony Quinn could n't persuade anyone else to let him direct any other films after this turkey . But it is filled with amusement value , since Yul Brynner has hair , Lorne Greene displays an unconvincing French accent , and the rest of the big names strut about in comic-book fashion .
to make up a movie-going audience - I 'm certainly stunned by the number of positive comments this wretched film has garnered here . I ca n't credit it , ca n't help but be suspicious , for that matter , of back alley payoffs to critics who are touting Annette Bening for an Oscar ; the hole in the kitchen ceiling might be more appropriately attributed to her scenery chewing . She 's a wonderful actress but this is an unfortunately unbalanced performance , lacking that essential quality film actors must master of catching the cadence of the screenplay and maintaining it for the duration of the disjointed madness that is a film shoot . I do n't really want to blame Miss Bening or most of the other performers ( well , Gwyneth Paltrow has no excuse for her muzzy work ) , however , because this is a horrendous adaptation , a classic case of mistranslation ( I am prepared to assume . I have n't read the book and do n't think I will after this ) . The script launches us into the middle/muddle of unaccountable behaviour and extreme emotional angst spewing from mystifying characters who have developed relationships neither with us nor each other . It quickly becomes a grotesquely excessive tsunami-like assault that sullies characters and audience alike and left me like a survivor shaking my head at the detritus left at the end of each repetitive episode . Shock and awe would describe my reaction to frantic , bi-polar mood swings between ranting and oh-so-quiet sensitivity , the latter telegraphed by one of the most irritating , manipulative , droning soundtracks I 've heard - that is , when all this is n't being set to ludicrously incongruous toons - period stuff , ya know , but chosen with an astounding disregard for the tone of the scenes . How this fine cast got mixed up in this I do n't know - I ca n't believe they saw the screenplay before signing . They certainly apply their skills with commitment - I felt so sorry for the wonderful Jill Clayburgh saddled with a cartoon bag lady costume and wig trying vainly to wrench something of significance from sketchy and clichéd dialogue . In contrast , somehow , Alec Baldwin rises above the material to deliver a consistent , nuanced , real performance . Can somebody give this man a lead role of substance , please ? And how about Rachel Evan Wood - or Joseph Fiennes ? You 'd think the industry could make better use of him , and without appearing as hirsute as Elliot Gould in M.A.S.H . My vote ? A standup turd , all right , but no link with heaven .
The word in the summary sums it up d'oh ; ) Five girls get lost trying to find their way home , when they stop at a store to get directions they hit a parked car breaking one headlight on it , they flea the scene in fair of getting in trouble but suddenly they see one headlight coming up behind them ( ooooh ) . From there out everything is screaming , crying and violence when they try to get away from this crazy person who lost it because of a headlight ; ) , well the screaming and crying pretty much stays through the entire movie ( very annoying ) The movie is shot , with a cheap camera trying to make it seem `` real '' or `` shocking '' I guess , it 's just embarrassing and useless though . In lack of anything better to compare it with , `` Blair witch style '' . The screaming and crying for pretty much the entire movie with crappy sound was over the top annoying , you literally get a headache : ) I 'm sorry but this was not scary , only an annoying painful piece of crap movie .
For starters , I would like to say that I 'm a fan of the American Pie series . Even though 'the naked mile ' and this one are the two worst , this one seems to be the downfall of the whole series . First of all , the best part of the film was that it was an American Pie film , which is always appreciated . However , there are tonnes of bad things to say about this film . First of all , the story has a very stale 'arc ' structure . First , there is the introduction of the characters , then the pledging of the beta house and finally the Greek Olympiad . Each of which has exactly 25 minutes of length . Apart from the general staleness of the plot , there is little to no character development , which makes a double whammy of a bad plot . Apart from that , I deeply disliked the stereotyping in this film . That is , showing the jocks as the extremely cool , only-thinking-about-sex guys , and explicitly displaying the geeks as inferior . Also , it shows females only as sexual objects , and males as only wanting to treat the females as sexual objects . Apart from that , the acting was also poor . With perhaps the exception of Steve Talley . So , in the end , a generally horrid film , if seen from a critical point of view . If seen from a teen point of view , I guess that it 's better , but this film is rated 18+ in most countries , so it should n't really be seen by minors .
First of all there was n't really anything in this movie that grabbed me really . It was n't a bad movie , just another movie where I said `` Well , that was n't anything special '' after I 'd seen it . There was probably drama and stuff , but it simply did n't grab me , but more seamed semi-dull . As I said in the headline it seamed very cheap in a way . The quality of the film itself ( the images ) seamed like a low quality and reminded me more of some cheap made for TV-movie than a well respected English film-maker . The camera angles and shots were very amateur like in my opinion . Did n't really have any close up shots or similar effects to produce interesting scenes . I have n't seen many English films and the ones I 've seen did n't really impress me more than this and they seamed kind of similar done with the camera work , colors and such . `` Game '' tried to be more cool , hip & smart ( see my review of `` Lola Rennt '' about this if you wish ) , but did n't succeed for me either . Overall just a little indifferent movie that was n't anything special ( at best , I 'm afraid ) and basically unfortunately over two hours wasted .
I do n't know much about Tobe Hooper , or why he gets his name in the title , but maybe he should n't have bothered . As another commenter mentioned , there is n't really enough horror or erotica to bring in fans of either genre . The plot is incoherent , the Sade sequences are gratuitous , and most of the acting is so-so . Englund was doing his best with weak material , and Zoe Trilling has a really great bottom , but neither is enough to carry this film . This one 's a tape-over . Grade : F
I just got the UK 4-disc special edition of Superman 1 for about $ 5 . The additional stuff includes the 1951 feature Superman and the Mole-Men . So I slapped it into the DVD player last night , and here are my findings . Some initial disappointment - I had n't checked , and I think I had it mentally tagged as one of the Kirk Alyn serials . I 'm not a huge fan of George Reeves as Superman , and I had n't seen anything other than the odd clip of Kirk Alyn - but hey ho , never mind . This black and white production runs for less than an hour . It has the feel of a couple of episodes of one of Reeves ' early TV series , a two-parter , put together for cinema release , although IMDb says it was filmed as a cinema release in advance of the first TV series . In any event , it 's an odd choice for reasons I 'll get to later . I 'm of an age where I recall TV and movie productions which are limited to one or two locations and sets , so there were no major surprises here . Even so , for a low budget movie , this one is REALLY low budget . The story concerns the small town of Silsby - population 1,430 - which , puzzlingly , is also home to the world 's deepest oil well ( 6 miles ) . The story opens with the well 's foreman hurriedly taking steps to close the well down . This conflicts with the arrival of Metropolis reporters Kent and Lane to report on the well , at the behest of the oil company . As Clark is sniffing out the fact that the drill has emerged into a radioactive cavern 6 miles down , a couple of odd little guys ( small in stature , big in head , black in jumpsuit , and bushy in eyebrow ) emerge from the capped-off drillshaft , and start mooching round town with puzzled expressions on their faces . A deep breath now , here is the remaining plot of the picture . The little guys scare some kids , so Jeff Corey ( playing the town 's rampant xenophobe ) incites some pals to kill these `` creatures '' . Superman steps in ( moderately ineffectually ) and catches one of the little guys who has been shot and takes him to the local hospital . Corey 's pals burn down the shack the other little fellow has hidden in and assume he is killed , but he escapes and legs it down the shaft . Corey incites a lynch mob ( despite the sheriff arresting him ) to hang the hospitalised Mole-Man . Superman stops them entering the hospital and takes the injured chappie to the shaft to return him to his fellows . A total of 4 Mole-Men emerge with a weapon of some sort which they fire at Jeff Corey ( I call this an Aargh ! gun because its sole effect seems to be to make Corey go `` Aargh ! '' ) and Superman saves him . He immediately changes his ways because of amazement at Superman saving him after the way he has behaved , the Mole-men go back down the shaft . The end . Despite the film only being an hour long , there is an inordinate amount of creeping around , bewareing and pursuing - I have left out all the `` Mole-Man 1 creeps from A to B , looking out to make sure no-one is following him '' stuff . The Mole-Men are never engaged in any way whatsoever - they have no dialogue - they just turn up , get persecuted , and go back . They do look a little creepy , but they are hardly the bug-eyed monsters that the town 's reaction implies . Reeves is quite a good Clark Kent - very much a hard-nosed reporter , much more so than Phyllis Coates ' rather indifferent Lois Lane . But he is a terrible , terrible Superman . Not only does he not look the part ( at least his hair is dyed black in this , which is an improvement from the rather light hair he sported in some of the TV episodes ) , the way he plays it is all wrong in my book . I 'm sure he was told to `` strike the pose '' ( which Superman does constantly ) , but someone should have told him that it should be fists on hips , not fists on ribs . And he plays Superman as a rather strict and touchy schoolteacher - he does n't actually wag his finger in remonstration , but he may as well have done . And Superman does a huge amount of walking around ( I say a huge amount - he is n't actually in it all that much ) , and a bit of running . He takes off and lands a couple of times , but is n't seen in flight at any point . Oh , some bullets bounce off him , and he uses telescopic vision as Clark , but with no accompanying visual effect . In fact , visual effects are conspicuous by their absence , and the few which are present are n't very good . I 've tried to consider this effort by reference to the standards of the time : but even by those standards I think it 's a pretty threadbare effort . Thankfully , production standards on the TV series were higher , and at least they took the trouble to come up with stories which had a bit more to them . Something of a disappointment - I sha n't be watching it again .
Deep SH.. is more like it ! The eels are just cartooned in over the film . Think `` The Incredible Mr. Limpet '' meets `` Leviathan '' . Very tacky . No character or relationship development . So called `` romantic '' scenes very corny and predictable . An interesting idea , but a poorly written script and LOUSY special effects make this a definite must-miss !
`` Cavemen '' exceeded my expectations , and not in a good way . It was even worse than I thought it would be . Basically , here 's the show : The Cavemen are an alternate race , they face prejudice , etc . Quite possibly the stupidest idea ever created ; almost being worthy of jail time for the writers . One show featured the cavemen going into a club , trying to pick up girls , and then nothing else happened . It was reminiscent of listening to a 22 minute Andy Rooney dialog , followed by death by steak knives via midget cannibals . For those who have not seen this show , here 's an example of the dialog : `` You 're sure you 're okay with going out with a caveman . '' `` Yeah , that 's fine . I 've had like 10 - thousand ! '' Hilarious ... Possibly the best writing I 've ever witnessed . 22 minutes of cavemen with horrible makeup , tackling tough social issues ... Sounds like an entertaining night . I also love how bad the recent ideas are that they 're resorted to making a sitcom out of car insurance commercials . I wonder if they 'll do the Gecko next , so that I can have a new title for the worst show I 've ever seen . I would even say that this is worse than `` Viva Laughlin . '' At least `` Viva Laughlin '' was ripped off from something that was somewhat inspired . Shows like this make me hope that there 's a comet up there somewhere aimed for Earth . ( Unratable honestly ... )
This movie is simply not worth the time or money spent . Full of clichés and a plot that makes absolutely no sense ! I cant believe that so many people have given this awful movie a 10 . My guess is they are stooges of the movie maker . If I could give this movie a zero , I would . Too bad IMDb does n't allow that . The only reason I watched it because I went with a friend who really wanted to see it . Whats sad is that I never had great expectations from this movie to begin with and yet I felt short changed . Take my word , do n't waste your $ 8 on this piece of trash . The only entertainment I got out of the movie was making fun of the directors name . In all , highly NOT RECOMMENDED !
Stefan is an x-con that five years ago got married to Marie . Their marriage has been stable until Stefan past catch up with them and he 's offered to do a courier job . Stefan 's job is a heroin delivery from Germany to Sweden which should go easily . In Germany Stefan meet Elli , a girl from Bosnia that has been sold to a stripclub owner . Stefan dislikes what he sees and decide to help Elli out of her misery . Due to the fact that Elli 's father during the war fleed to Sweden Elli now goes with Stefan to Sweden . To make up with the past Stefan promises Elli to help her find her father , no matter what it takes . Finally back in Sweden the whole situation seems to be more complicated than Stefan ever thought of.. This movie does n't seem to fit in the ordinary class of swedish movies due to the fact that it 's been americanized alot . Regina Lund and Cecilia Bergqvist makes it all average , the effects makes the movie a little too much though . See it and jugde for yourself .
Before writing this review , I went back and reread the reviews of others . This movie was a particular disappointment to me , since it features two of my favorite dancers , Gene Kelly and George Chakiris , boasts a score by the often wonderous Michel LeGrand ( `` Wuthering Heights , '' `` Ice Station Zebra , '' `` The Thomas Crowne Affair '' ) . The dancing was stilted , unmotivated and unoriginal , the songs forgettable , the story a joke . Even the costuming was not particularly flattering . Only the photography correctly captured the proper mood and spirit . I 'm glad other people enjoyed `` The Young Girls of Rochefort , '' though I most certainly did not .
This is one of the worst films ever . I like cheesy movies but this is simply awful . Where are the images in the film that are on the box ? I think more money was spent on the DVD box illustrations than on the entire film . Why would a company release a DVD that the cover is so misleading ? I feel like such an idiot for renting this movie based strictly on the box . As much as I explore IMDb I should have done a little research and made a list prior to visiting my local video rental store . I have no one to blame except myself . I want my money and time back . DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE . Even if curiosity is motivating you , stick cocktail umbrellas in your eyes instead . It will be much more enjoyable . You have been warned !
... had I watched it in my teenage years . This movie was mildly entertaining . What I liked about Soul Survivors were the gothic atmosphere during the party scenes , and the constant flips between 'dream ' and 'reality . Had there not been movies like 'The 6th Sense ' and 'Do n't Look Now ' I would have been surprised by the ending .
A great slasher movie -- too bad it was the producers and not part of the script . Basic plot summary - man with redhead fetish goes invites such women to his flat only to go into some kind of freakish coma and proceeds in offing them to various degrees of success . Only the cutting crew behind the scenes must have thought the movie was as ad as I did and chopped the heck out of the movie . Nothing flows , you get lost on which redhead he is with at the time ( did n't he off that one earlier ? ? ) , and most of the time it looks like the camera man passed out and resumed filming when he awoke . Not that I can blame him I passed out 2-3 times and had to rewind and resume to try to regain what little plot that does exist . Warning when you see the ending DO NOT try to connect it with anything that happens before -- you will just get an aneurysm . Not worth the time , effort , or God forbid money . Only reason to get a 2 instead of a 1 - the slim chance that the hacking occurred between film release and the horrible version that I watched .
The movie remains in the gray for far too long . Very little gets explained as the movie progresses , with as a result lots of weird sequences that seem to have a deeper meaning but because of the way of storytelling they become only just weird and not understandable to watch . It sort of forces you to watch the movie again but no way I 'm going to do that . It is that I watched this movie in the morning , I 'm sure of it that if I watched this movie in the evening I would had fallen asleep . To me the movie was like a poor man 's `` Blade Runner '' . The movie leaves far too many questions and improbabilities . It makes the movie leave a pointless and non-lasting impression . Also the weird look of the movie does n't help much . The movie is halve CGI/halve real life but it 's not done halve as good , impressive , spectacular and imaginative as for instance would be the case in later movies such as `` Sin City '' and `` 300 '' . They even created halve of the characters of the movie by computer , which seemed like a very pointless- and odd choice , also considering that the character animation is n't too impressive looking . Sure the futuristic environment is still good looking and the movie obviously was n't cheap to make but its style over substance and in this case that really is n't a positive thing to say . Some of the lines are also absolutely horrendous and uninteresting . The main God of the movie constantly says lines such as ; 'I 'm going to do this but it 's none of your concern why I want to do it ' . Than just do n't say anything at all Mr. Horus ! It 's irritating and a really easy thing to put in movie , if you do n't care to explain anything about the plot . Also the deeper questions and meanings of the movie gets muddled in the drivel of the movie and its script . The actors still did their very best . They seemed like they believed in the project and were sure of it that what they were making would be something special . So I ca n't say anything negative about them . The story and movie is far from original . It rip-offs from a lot of classic and semi-classic , mostly modern , science-fiction movies . It perhaps is also the reason why the movie made a very redundant impression on me . A failed and uninteresting movie experiment . 3/10
Once again I have seen a movie made by people that know nothing . I just recently reviewed Baby Face Nelson . Now I 've seen Dillinger and I 've had it . This movie is garbage . I do n't know how anyone in their right mind could compare this to a classic like Bonnie and Clyde . This movie is far from a classic . Someone called it brilliant . That 's an insane thing to say . This movie ca n't get any facts straight and it has the worst casting I 've ever seen . I do n't know whose dumb idea it was to cast Warren Oates as John Dillinger . First of all he looks nothing like him . Second of all , by the time John Dillinger was killed he was 31 . When Oates made this he was 45 ! You could even tell that he 's older than the real Dillinger just by looking at him . Not only was he too old , but so was Ben Johnson as Melvin Purvis . They show Baby Face Nelson die , then Homer Van Meter , and finally John Dillinger . John Dillinger was killed before both of them . The last one to die out of the three was Baby Face Nelson . Not only do the writers not know when they died , but they also do n't know how they died . Baby Face Nelson was not killed after he escaped from Little Bohemia in a robe . Homer Van Meter was not killed by farmers with shot guns . Homer Van Meter was cornered by the police in St. Paul and gunned down with machine guns . Another member of Dillinger 's gang , Harry Pierpont is shown being shot by police in this movie . Pierpont was n't shot . Harry Pierpont was captured and sentenced to die in the electric chair . I go into what happened to Baby Face Nelson on my Baby Face Nelson review so I 'm not going to go into it again here . Let me also add that Richard Dreyfuss ' portrayal of Baby Face Nelson is pathetic . There 's a scene where he attacks Dillinger and then gets a bad beating . While Dillinger was beating him he was crying like a baby and screaming , `` Leave me alone ! '' Baby Face Nelson and John Dillinger never fought . Maybe Dillinger did n't agree with Nelson 's bank robbing methods , but they never fought . Nelson also never cried like a little girl while getting beaten . They keep calling him Lester `` Baby Face '' Nelson . He was never in his life known by that name . Nelson 's real name was Lester Gillis and he changed his name to George Nelson . The black guy that escaped from jail with Dillinger was Herbert Youngblood , but in this movie he is known as Reed Youngblood . John Milius does n't know anything . Where the hell did John Milius get his information ? I could probably make a better movie than him . Finally the way they showed John Dillinger die is outrageous and inexcusable . The movie shows Dillinger walk out of the Biograph with the Lady in Red and his girlfriend Billie Frechette . By the way , Billie Frechette was n't even there that night . But a girl named Polly Hamilton was . Melvin Purvis yells , 'Johnny ! ' Dillinger pulls out his gun and is blown to hell . It is a proved fact that Dillinger did not have a gun that night . The FBI gave him no chance to surrender and as soon as he was in sight they blew him away . They did n't even have to shoot him . They were so close that powder burns were found on his face . It was murder . They also say that the man killed that night was not John Dillinger . After killing tons of civilians in the Little Bohemia incident can you imagine the FBI reporting that they had just killed another innocent unarmed man ? The gun they had on display that was supposedly on Dillinger was also proved not to have been manufactured until after Dillinger 's death . I could go on and on how the man they killed was n't John Dillinger , but I 'll stop here . If you would like to know more check it out here See the Dillinger version with Lawrence Tierney if you want , but do n't waste your time with this inaccurate piece of garbage movie .
I watched Cabin by the Lake this afternoon on USA . Considering this movie was made for TV is was interesting enough to watch the sequel . So , I tune in for the airing this evening and was extremely disappointed . I knew I would n't like the movie , but I was not expecting to be perplexed by the use of DV ( digital video ) . The movie would have been tolerable if it was n't for these juxtaposed digital shots that seemed to come from nowhere . I expected the plot line to be tied in with these shots , but there seemed to be no logical explanation . ( WARNING : THE FOLLOWING MAYBE A SPOILER ! ! ! ! ) The open ending in Cabin by the Lake was acceptable , but the open ending on the sequel is ridiculous . I can only foresee Return of Return to The Cabin by the Lake being watch able is if the movie was shown up against nothing , but infomercials at 4 o'clock in the morning .
I have seen about a thousand horror films . ( my favorite type ) This film is among the worst . For me , an idea drives a movie . So , even a poorly acted , cheaply made movie can be good . Something Weird is definitely cheaply made . However , it has little to say . I still do n't understand what the karate scene in the beginning has to do with the film . Something Weird has little to offer . Save yourself the pain !
Three Russian aristocrats soak up the decadence of Monte Carlo , despite the fact they are down to their last franc . In order to support their lavish lifestyle , the three use the services of a counterfeiter , and use the notes at the casinos , hoping to exchange the bogus currency for a jackpot . Andrew Hughes , a US envoy , arrives at Monaco with his wife Helen , and the three decide to make pals with the visitors , hoping for financial assistance . One of the three Russians , Count Sergius Karamzin , plans to go further , with continuous advance towards Helen , while disappointing the Count 's maid , who loves Sergius . Eventually , circumstances play their hand against the three aristocrats . Its obvious that Von Stroheim was trying to convey a message ( with the foolishness of American women and the improper behaviors of the aristocrats ) , rather than tell a story , and the film really can bore modern audiences , like me , easily by doing that . Even the acting , which is great in later EvS like Greed and the Wedding March , is just run of the mill here . The film could have used improvements on various levels . Rating , 3 .
This movie is horrible . THe acting is a waste basket . No crying , no action , hopeless songs . Though the scenery is great . I have always wanted to go to Greece . Anyway , as for Saif , you 'd expect a great performance , but even he let down the people . Akshay Kumar , recognized as the pimp of Bollywood and the voice of Singhs . He was sensational in this movie . For only this performance , Filmfare should introduce another award . The toiletries award for the worst performance . By the way the trophy should be a toilet seat . Kareena Kapoor . She first of all is not comparable to her sister Karisma . In acting , in looks , or in body . She now wants to prove to herself that she surpasses her . She comes into this movie wearing bikini 's and tank tops and short shorts . I really wonder why Saif Ali Khan is letting his wife-to-be dress like that . But , she must 've impressed some people dressing like that . And if you ask how , then consider every man is having an erection watching this movie . They are dreaming of having Kareena Kapoor in bed naked with a condom . Including me . Personally I think that she dressed like a whore , but I really liked it . I am forced to give it a 1/10 , but I 'd really give this movie a 0/10 . An unachieved film .
The threesome of Bill Boyd , Robert Armstrong , and James Gleason play Coney Island carnys vying for the hand of Ginger Rogers , a working gal who sells salt water taffy . With the outbreak of World War I , the threesome enlist and pursue Ginger from afar . The first half of this RKO Pathe production is hard going , with the three male leads chewing up the scenery with overcooked one-liners and 'snappy ' dialogue that quickly grows tiresome . The second half concentrates on action sequences as the US Navy pursues both a German merchant cruiser and a U-boat . These sequences are lively and well-filmed , but overall this is an overlong and unsatisfying comedy-drama with a flat ending . For fans of the stars only .
This is an hybrid creature born at Carl Macek mind . With Robotech the second generation ( Robotech Masters ) and Megazone 23 into one miserable movie , that have no logic ! The story is very , very bad , and you can not forgive the action of Megazone when have nothing to do with Robotech . If this movie have so high rank is for the TV series and not for itself ! ! I did said it , the name can not save this !
DOC SAVAGE : THE MAN OF BRONZE ( 1 outta 5 stars ) Dreadful , dreadful movie ... based on the pulp magazine/paperback series by Lester Dent/Kenneth Robeson ... about a super-heroic adventure hero in the '30s and his five assistants , all experts in some field of endeavor that allows them to combat evil . It was a pretty hokey series ... but kinda fun to read when I was a teenager . I knew they made a movie version in the '70s , starring Ron ( Tarzan ) Ely ... but I never got a chance to see it . It never played in theaters where I lived and was never shown on TV . Now that I have finally seen the film I can understand why . The plot and characters are never treated seriously ... it 's all kind of tongue-in-cheek and campy ... kind of like the old Batman TV series ... only without the benefit of being funny ... or having any visual flair . Corny dialogue , cheesy special effects , dumb stereotypes , crummy action scenes and bad , bad acting . Actually , I find it kind of fascinating in its badness ... what could they have possibly been thinking ? Arnold Schwarzenegger was rumoured to be starring in a modern-day remake ... but I do n't imagine that would have turned out to be much better .
Iberia is nice to see on TV . But why see this in silver screen ? Lot of dance and music . If you like classical music or modern dance this could be your date movie . But otherwise one and half hour is just too long time . If you like to see skillful dancing in silver screen it 's better to see Bollywood movie . They know how to combine breath taking dancing to long movie . Director Carlos Saura knows how to shoot dancing from old experience . And time to time it 's look really good . but when the movie is one and hour it should be at least most of time interesting . There are many kind of art not everything is bigger then life and this film is not too big .
I rented this one to see Vanesa Talor one more time . She can act , but does n't get a chance in this clunker . The opening sequence is an elaborate crane shot of mountain landscapes . Must have come from a stock archive , because the movie is shot direct to videotape . The production values make _Blair Witch_ look professional . There 's a really cheesy animated statue , but no other effects worth noting . This movie is bad , but not amusingly so . The players would do well not to mention it on their resumes .
I have to say although this movie was formulaic throughout with a plot stolen from films like Friday the 13th/I Know What You Did Last Summer , this movie was n't that bad . In fact it was n't as bad as most of the Horror films Hollywood has released recently . The killings although at times a little too imaginative were in most instances just that , original . The cast was mediocre which is to be expected from low-budget features but much better than what that much bigger studio Artisan/Lions Gate has been offering . My only real complaint that was n't due to the film 's budget , which must have been small , was the contrived `` twist '' ending . I 'm sorry but this is what put this film in the bad category for me . The ending was just stupid and tacked on . Before that I was a little bored , but actually enjoying it . 4/10
When you wish for the dragon to eat every cast member , you know you 're in for a bad ride . I went in with very , very low expectations , having read some of the other comments , and was not let down . Unlike some other cheap and failed movies , however , this one does n't really remain hilariously ( and unintentionally ) funny throughout . -SPOILERS FOLLOW- First of all , plot it very inconsistent . Looking past the `` small '' mistakes , such as the dragon growing up in 3 hours , the whole idea it 's based on is messed up . See , the movie wants us to believe that dragons came from outer space in the form of meteorites which really were dragon eggs . After explaining this , they show some peasant poking at one with his pitchfork and the dragon pops out . Later , the obligatory `` crazy scientist '' guy babbles on about how dragons outlived the dinosaurs . So apparently humans were around when dinosaurs were , or we just have a fine little plot hole here . The other major thing is that the lab is blown up with a force `` half as strong '' as what was used for Hiroshima . Then two guys later walk in to check everything out , and it 's almost unscathed ! There 's even another dragon , which grew out of who knows what . All in all it 's very predictable . As soon as the guy mentioned cloning , I guessed they 'd clone a dragon . That means that our Mr. Smarty-pants security guy is n't so intuitive and smart as the movie would have you believe , if you ignore that I knew this film would be about , you know , dragons . Putting that aside , the second worst thing is the `` special effects . '' Others have mentioned the fake rocks falling during the beginning , the CG helicopter , and the dragon . It looks a bit better than a blob , but it ruined whatever it had going for it when it trudged down the hall in the same manner time after time . To their credit , the flying dragons in the beginning looked OK from far away ( although the one in the cave is probably the worst one in the whole movie . ) These things are funny to watch , however . The scenes where a million different shots of the same person facing different ways are shown are not . Nor are the `` introduction '' screens with the vital stats . Coming to the actors , they were n't the greatest , but I guess at least they tried ? They seemed more enthusiastic about what they were doing than many of the actors participating in the recent `` BloodRayne , '' for example , and you 've got to give them points for that . One thing I noticed though was that the woman who plays Meredith often had her face covered in make-up that was many tones lighter than the rest of her . She looked like she had a bad run-in with some white-face . The script is bad and cheesy . You do n't really notice the music , but it 's actually not too bad for the most part . The bottom line is do n't watch it unless you want to see it because you hear it 's bad ( like I did ) , although the only funny things are the bad CG effects . Other than that , do n't waste your time and money .
I ca n't help but laugh at the people who praise this show as heartwarming and tear-jerking . For one , it 's entirely unrealistic that these people will have perfect lives after their new homes . How can these families afford to maintain these new mega-houses ? And what about their poor neighbors ? Property taxes must surely increase after this happens . Plus , the noise would annoy me . Second , how excessive can a reality television show become ? It 's practically the same repetitive junk week after week . We 're introduced to a suffering family , they renovate the home , then surprise the family and everyone breaks out the Kleenex boxes . Not to mention how boring the renovation part is . The only interesting part of the show is to see what the house looks like , but even that segment is destroyed by the phony confessionals and constant sobbing . `` Extreme Makeover : Home Edition '' is a show pretending to be heartfelt but it falls flat . Skip this one . If you like reality television , `` Survivor '' is far superior and moving .
WARNING SPOILERS***** A really stupid movie about a group of young excursionists in Italy that find an armor of mythical warrior with a demonic souls . One of them wears it and becomes possessed by the spirit of a demon . It 's killing time and several of his friends die under his blade to revive the demon corpse . A waste of time for the viewers , as the fine young ladies in the movie leave their clothes on , the gore is ludicrous at best , and the acting is terrible , perfect pairing for such a bad script
In the small American town of Meadowvale Dr. Anthony Blake ( David Gale , the IMDb listing for this character is wrong it 's definitely Dr. Blake not Dr. Blakely ) is the director and founder of the famed 'Psychological Research Institute ' and also host 's a local T.V . programme called 'Independent Thinkers ' . He uses this T.V . show to hypnotise the viewers and make them commit acts of violence . Dr. Blake has the help of a large brain with an evil face that uses it 's spinal cord as a tail thingy . Usually the brain is just sitting in a tank , eats mice and the odd bad actor , each time it eats someone it gets much bigger . Meanwhile at the local high-school gifted but troublesome teenager Jim Majelewski ( Tom Bresnahan ) has been caught putting Sodium down the toilets . Jim is sent to Dr. Blake at the PRI for help with his attitude and behavioural problems . While there Dr. Blake hooks Jim up to , well something I 'm not actually sure what . This whatever it is , is attached to the brain . At first Jim is able to resist the brain 's mind control . The brain feels that Jim is a threat to itself and it 's plans . Once out of the PRI Jim starts having bizarre hallucinations and crashes his car . Jim makes it to his waitress girlfriend Janet ( Cynthia Preston as Cyndy Preston ) but is handed back to Dr. Blake 's assistant Verna ( George Buza ) soon after by Officer Marks ( Harry Booker ) . The brain wants to kill Jim because he is the only one capable of withstanding it 's mind control techniques , and with 'Independent Thinkers ' going national the brain does n't want anything or anyone to stop it 's evil plan for world domination ! Jim quickly realises that the brain is controlling the entire town and he alone must stop the brain , before it takes over the world ! Directed by Ed Hunt who calls himself Edward Hunt here , the Brain was n't as bad as I thought it was going to be . Do n't get me wrong as it certainly is n't great either . The script by Barry Pearson tries a stab at satire with the brain washing and mind control by T.V . storyline . It moves along at a fair pace and is n't too boring . No explanation is given for the existence of the brain at all , it 's just there and that 's it we have to accept it . The story is a little choppy and never fully explores one single element , there 's the T.V . mind control , the brain itself , Jim being hunted by the police & his misbehaviour and various other little bits and pieces here and there including a bizarre revelation regarding Dr. Blake that is n't explained at all . Production wise this film looks cheap , and probably was cheap . The acting is n't great but I 've seen worse , and what is David Gale doing in this ? In fact this role is similar to Gale 's role in Re-Animator ( 1985 ) even down to his character 's deaths in both films . The brain itself at first sits in a tank and starts to grow whenever it eats someone and by the end it is pretty big . Each stage is just made of rubber . It does n't look particularly good and is n't scary or creepy , just cheap . There 's no blood or gore in it apart from a blink and you 'll miss it decapitation . The nudity is provided by Dr. Blake 's assistant Vivian ( Christine Kossak as Christine Kossack ) before she gets eaten . The brain had a certain entertainment value for me but I would think most people would dislike it . Maybe worth a watch if you can see it on T.V . for free .
Dull , flatly-directed `` comedy '' has zero laughs and wastes a great cast . Alan Alda wore too many hats on this one and it shows . Newcomer Anthony LaPaglia provides the only spark of life in this tedium but it 's not enough . One of those scripts that , if you were a neophyte and submitted it to an agent or producer , would be ripped to shreds and rejected without discussion .
Awwww ... .yes , it is heartwarming and all that some unlucky family gets adopted by ABC/Sears and has their home `` renovated . '' That 's where the humanistic appeal ends . I liked it early in its run , but now this show has become disgustingly excessive . Ten needy families could be given relatively luxurious homes with lots of goodies for every one family that each episode of this show splurges on . The people at Habitat For Humanity must be shaking their heads in disbelief . For example , is it necessary for a healthy sixteen year old boy to have a jacuzzi in his bedroom , or have his bed tricked-out with `` Low Rider '' hydraulics ? Does the mom really need her dilapidated , non-running and rusted out old pick-up truck restored and `` pimped '' by some of the best customizers in California ? A new one would have done the job quite nicely , and probably for a third of the price . Do people really need a sixty-five inch plasma screen in every room of the house ? And then there 's the issue of who pays the increased property taxes and utility bills . Even after the zaniacs at `` Makeover '' leave , somebody still has earn a living . I doubt the friendly folks down at Social Services will see the humor in all of this largess . This show is nothing more than a ratings grabber for ABC , and a tacit commercial for its sponsors .
I am the guy who usually keeps opinions to himself , but I just got back from this movie , and felt I had to express my opinions . Let me start by saying that I am a HUGE horror fan . But what makes a horror movie ? I sure like to see even a tiny bit of a good script and character development . I know they often lack in horror movies , but Prom Night looked like it did n't even put forth ANY effort in that department . Next , we all love suspense . That on the edge of your seat suspense with unpredictable surprises . Yeah , Prom Night had none of that ! Of course , we like a terrifying killer . Prom Night have that ? Nope , it has a pretty boy with a cute lil ' knife . And when all else fails ... at least horror has its guilty pleasure to make it enjoyable like gore gore gore , and the occasional nude scene ! Yeah , well when you have a horror movie rated PG-13 like Prom Night , they leave that stuff out too . So with all of these elements missing , I ask ... .does this still count as a horror movie ? Nope . I 'd call it more of a comedy . People in my theater were laughing more at this then they were when I saw `` Semi-Pro '' that was supposed to actually be a comedy ( which also sucked , but thats another story ! ) . I think I am just going to have to give up on new horror . All the good horror movies of the good ol ' days have been remade into garbage so movie studios can make money . The people I went to see it with did n't even know this was a remake ! Which made me mad ! I wonder what will happen when there 's no more movies to remake ? ? ? Where will horror go next ? ? ?
This little show is obviously some stupid little prequel/spin off of the original series . Compared to the live action series this show is utter crap . The live action show had intelligent jokes and story lines . While the animated series is basically a toned down bittersweet version for younger viewers to digest but i think maybe kids deteste this crap . The storyline in every episode is basically just Sabrina has some stupid and pointless dillemma and she uses magic to fix it . Thats basiclly the idea every episode . The most bizarre episode was when Sabrina uses magic to become Gem and Gem to become Sabrina . So then Gem becomes a witch and hypnotizes harvery to become her slave . This then leads to a bizarre yet rather interesting scene were Gem says `` just adore me for now '' and harvey get down on his hands and knees and starts kissing her feet like shes a god . ( which is quite right since he 's her mind control slave ) But this stupid spin-off is not worth the time or the effort .
If Todd Sheets were to come out and admit that this movie was intended to spoof the zombie genre , I would change my rating to an eight . Try to imagine a movie where every scene , line , and even every acting nuance was designed to be a parody . I could probably crap out alphabet soup , rearrange what was left of the letters , and still have a better script . Two scenes in particular come to mind when I think of this movie . SPOILER ALERT ! One is when Mike 's dad and the other dad walk , I repeat walk down a staircase jam packed with zombies . This is a small staircase and even though they brush up against the flailing undead , nothing happens to them . When they reach the end , the ex-marine turns around , says `` God you 're a horny bastard '' , and shoots only one . The other is in the military complex . The girl stabs a zombie with a machete and is immediately surrounded . The camera moves around her for roughly forty seconds , while she is surrounded by zombies at an arm 's length away . She then almost casually runs out from the crowd and joins the other humans . SPOILER ALERT OVER ! These scenes must be seen to be believed . Still , I enjoy this movie as much as almost any comedy just because it 's so damn funny . Kudos to Todd Sheets for getting so many people in his movie and having the drive to make it but not really for anything else .
A hard to find film which coasts on the still pervasive mythology of Senator Joe McCarthy as a political demon king . Boyle ( as Joe ) gives a compelling but historically inaccurate portrayal of the Wisconsin Senator , the caricature McCarthy many take as the real one . Meredith , as wily Army lawyer Joseph Welch , who outsmarted McCarthy at the Army hearings in 1954 , is very good , as always . In fact , McCarthy and Cohn were quite right in worrying about the appalling security situation in the Army , and the 1954 Army hearings became enmeshed in the smokescreen used by the Army to deflect the investigation away from their security failings , which the committee were investigating , by counter-charging that McCarthy and Cohn were trying to get favours for their staffer , David Schine , whilst in the service . The film is self satisfied agenda driven polemic , based in the pervasive myths which have passed for the truth with many people for decades-that the `` red scare '' was essentially phony and McCarthy , HUAC etc were always blasting away at the wrong targets , being no more than lying , career ruining publicity hounds , who were trampling over the constitutional rights of startled innocent liberals , who were accused of being security risks/communists . People who know little about the matter still feel confident in repeating misinformation on McCarthy and the `` red scare '' to this day-Clooney 's Murrow hagiography is an example . The misinformation is pervasive , no wonder people have swallowed it . A recent obit of Budd Schulberg in the serious left wing UK newspaper `` The Guardian '' headlined that the Hollywood writer `` named names '' `` to McCarthy '' - perpetuating the lie that McCarthy `` investigated '' Hollywood as head of HUAC-the truth being that McCarthy was never even a member of HUAC and he had little interest in the politics of Hollywood types-his investigations were confined almost exclusively to arms of the US government . The mythology about the `` red scare '' being baseless is now completely exploded by recently opened Soviet and US government documents , if anything McCarthy and co underestimated the sheer scale of Soviet and fellow traveller infiltration in the US , but decades of public misinformation about this period will be hard to correct . One day maybe some really brave Hollywood soul will make a movie telling the truth about how many American men and women clandestinely aided the mass murderer Stalin , and worked to impose his vicious system of government on the western world , giving an accurate account maybe of Joe McCarthy 's career-but I wo n't hold my breath . Till then , we have this mythical , drunken lying scoundrel of popular imagination so familiar in the media ... . '' Tail gunner Joe '' .
I was fully amped up to see this film . I had been waiting a year for it to be cleared down here in New Zealand . I should n't have built myself up so much because it was so disappointing and is without a doubt Clark 's worst film There is so much wrong with this film . First off , some of the acting is great , in particular Nick Stahl as 'The Bully ' , and the girl with the curly brown hair ( I ca n't recall her name ) , but most of it was so out of touch and incredibly unbelievable , especially Leo Fitzpatrick . He 's a veteran of Clark 's films now and he was so brilliant in 'Kids ' , but in 'Bully ' he invests his lines with such solemnity as to turn his scenes into a parody virtually . The screenplay felt like it had been written by a first year film student . No sorry , a high school student ... one who has never seen a movie before . And I could n't fathom Clark 's intentions . Was he trying to point out the meaningless of these kids ' existence ? It sure as hell did n't stop him getting in a damn good perv . I 'm no prude but I did n't need to see teenage breasts and buttocks every 5 minutes . I still maintain that Clark 's best film is 'Another Day in Paradise ' . It 's fantastic and I do n't think he 'll ever top it .
Everyone in a while , Disney makes one of thoes movies that surprises everyone . One that keeps you wondering until the very end . In the tradition of Pirates of the Caribbean , this movie is sure to turn into a ghost , and kill and rape your village . It 's terrible . If you want a mindless , senseless , predictable `` action '' movie , go right ahead . I believe that young kids might enjoy this , as they like it when Good ALWAYS wins . But me , I like movies where it 's a toss up who 's going to win . This movie never lets the Bad Guys have the upper hand . By the end , when th heroes are left in an `` inescapeable '' pit , you just KNOW that they can get out . Everything works out perfect for Cage and his friends , he never has to think over a riddle or clue for more than 10 seconds , no matter how complex it is . See this movie if you want to see some impressive set designs , not if you want to see good acting , or a good film . Go watch a superman movie , it would be much shorter , and the kids would like it more . For instance , the scene where Cage is fleeing from armed gunmen , and the bullets are all deflected by a the railing of a fire escape . ( And I 'm not talking about a fence or anything , just ONE LITTLE POLE ) This movie shows the decay of films and the film industry to cheap gags and dull , unrealistic action , which this movie provides in huge quantities .
What a joke . I am watching it on Channel 1 and I think watching paint dry is much more entertaining . What happened to Caspar Van Dien that got him roped into this nightmare . Terrible acting , very boring plot and terrible direction . It so terrible , it 's funny . It 's suppose to be full of suspense , but it more a comedy . If you want to see terrible acting , ridiculous script writing and sub-par plot , check this movie out . If I was Van Dien , I would not only ask for my 10 % from my agent , but fire the bastard in the process . What a turkey . It 's not even fit to be on MST 3K ! ! It would be a good movie to cure you insomnia . I especially love the part where Van Dien is throw overboard and then makes it back in just a few minutes ! I can only image that this was written by non-union writers taking advantage of the writer 's strike . What a horrible movie ! ! !
I thought this was a very clunky , uninvolving version of a famous Australian story . Heath Ledger and Orlando Bloom were very good in their roles , and gave their characters some personality ; but the whole thing felt forced and mechanical . The beginning could have been a lot more involving ; perhaps starting with a shootout , and then flashing back for a recap of how they got there or that sort of thing . And I felt like every scene was routinely predictable and signposted , like a very bad tv soap . I was really looking forward to this movie , and hoping for something a lot better . The only thing I can say in its favour is that it beats the Mick Jagger version , but not by much .
I 'm allowed to write 1000 words about this film , but one word could suffice : bizarre . Hubby and I did n't laugh so much as gawk at this truly dreadful movie . We kept looking at each other with our best `` What the ... ? '' expressions . There is no way to adequately describe this movie . Killer tomatoes were funny , but this is just sick . What kind of mind produces images like these and then puts them on film for others to see ? What kind of mind includes innocent children in this weird , weird movie and then packages it as if it is appropriate for children ? Parents , whatever you do , if your child still believes in Santa , do n't let him/her see this movie . Preteens can watch it -- probably with `` What the ... ? '' expressions on their faces . If you decide to inflict this movie on others , you might want to spike their eggnog . Quite possibly the worst film ever made .
R O B O T J O X . Burn the master . Grotesquely horrible . No ending ; no closure . Completely and utterly the worst movie ever made . Replaces `` The Adventures of Pluto Nash '' as the worst movie of all time . I hate this utterly unacted , unedited , unscripted , undirected , unproduced mess of a thing called `` Robot Jox '' - and I just found out - THEY MADE A SECOND ONE ! ? ! ? I apologize to Adma Sandler ( Zohar the Beauticin ) and Eddie Murphy ( Pluto Nash ) for hating their movies . This mess of a thing makes those movies only bad - not terrible horrible and grotesque like this thing . This is the only movie for which I have ever said this - REMOVE IT FROM NETFLIX - NOW ! ! ! 10,000 out of 10 people found this comment helpful .
Your attitude going into Prom Night II will determine how much joy you take away from the film . If you 're expecting a horror masterpiece , look elsewhere . If you like campy movies that are rather fun to watch unfold , you 'll like this . Lisa Schrage has the time of her life playing an over the top Mary Lou and Wendy Loyd channels Schrage 's rage perfectly during her time `` possessed '' . Not classic cinema but a fun way to kill a couple of hours with a wicked ending .
I bought this DVD for £1 and now i realise why . The acting was the worst I 've seen in a long time . The lighting and sound are shoddy at best . The plot makes little sense even when sober ( WARNING : I do n't advise watching this film when sober . ) This film feels like you 're watching the home movie of someone who does n't get out much . It really is a shame that all the very little money spent on this project went to such a waste , I look forward to seeing if any of those envoled still have a career , other than eva longoria who is the only `` star '' of this film that was apparently not hit with the bad acting stick . I 'm sorry that none of this criticism seems constructive but I will say one thing to James Cahill , do n't try it again . In the words of squirlyem `` Its severely lacking in the good department '' .
On a distant planet a psychopath is saved from execution by a space monk . He releases a few fellow inmates and breaks out of the prison in a spaceship . They dock onto a ludicrously enormous spacecraft that is orbiting a supernova star . This massive craft is populated by only three people , presumably because the budget of the film did not extend to hiring many actors . Anyway , to cut a long story short , the three goodies end up in a game of cat and mouse with the baddies . The psychopath in this movie is curious in that he is annoying . 'Annoying ' is generally not a term one would use to describe a lunatic - unhinged , frightening , dangerous maybe but not 'annoying ' but he is . The three people manning the giant ship are seriously unconvincing as warranting such important roles - this ship is practically the size of a city ! Considering that the film is set approximately 50 years in the future , it is somewhat optimistic that such a huge man-made craft could exist , never mind the fact that it is used for such a relatively mundane task . Despite the vast size of the spaceship , the crew all have appallingly kitted out , tiny rooms and the dining room consists of what appears to be a plastic table and chairs . But there are a lot of corridors . The film is fairly well acted and it works as an averagey sci-fi thriller . But nothing great .
With the exception of FAMILY , this new season is worse than Season One . I ca n't imagine what they are thinking . As a fan of horror , can tolerate a lot of gore and mindless mayhem , but this series gets worse with each outing . I ca n't imagine how disheartening it must be for the actors and crew to go to work each day , toiling to churn out such crap . STORY ! Is that too much to ask for ? CHARACTER ! How can we give damn about the fate of ANYONE in these stories ? If we are not engaged , who cares if they get carved up or whatever ? Almost every episode ends with mindless blood letting , going for gross out shock without any sense of revelation or conclusion or REASON why we have been subjected to an hour of bloodletting . Even Dante 's effort this season had some disturbing sexist violence and wandered off to a pointless conclusion . Ironically , the production values and performances tend to be up to speed , while the content is utter crap . I have great hopes for Exec Producer 's Garris 's VALARIE UNDER THE STAIRS , but we shall see .
I myself am a big fan of low-budget 80 's horror films . This is n't the worst but still not to spectacular . The plot line is decent but drags out way too long . You 're through half the movie before you even get to see any zombie action . The kills are n't very creative and the zombies are n't too crafty . I truly think this movie would have been better if they left out the zombies and just made it into some mafia flick . It 's watchable but I feel that this film did steal at least an hour of my life . I 'll give the film credit for being somewhat original . If you are really into B horror movies it 's worth a viewing but if you 're not , do n't bother . But you do n't have to take my word for it .
I was n't sure how to rate this movie , since it was so bad it was actually very funny . I 'm not a Gackt fan by any means , though he is talented , despite the weird pseudonym that sounds like a cat coughing up a hairball . I always thought Hyde was talented though , Faith is an interesting album . But on topic here folks . This movie is ridiculous . It 's so over the top and nonsensical it 's almost like a parody of supernatural action films . The movie has almost no plot here , except it 's just about vampires with gangster friends . In a way , this film almost reminded me of Spider-Man 3 , with how there were too many ideas , which resulted in not enough time to pay attention on one of them . The action scenes were laughable . Quickly edited , almost hard to understand , with choreography that 's so laughably bad . Though Hyde looked very stylish during the action scenes , but that 's this film 's only such redemption . I 'm a sucker for good action movies , but the action was horribly done . Though the final shootout was OK and the highlight of this otherwise depressing movie . It keeps jumping between genres , not a good thing . It wants to be a drama , or an action flick , or a horror , or a romance ... what the hell . If this review is making you mad , why ? Is it because Gackt and Hyde are your love ? Do n't fool yourself , this MOVIE IS BAD .
I watched this movie with some friends a couple months ago , I still laugh today thinking about some of the utter stupidity . The first few scenes alone were hilarious . I wo n't spoil anything for those who wish to see it , I would n't want to ruin the laughs . Needless to say the entire time I watched this movie I was trying to figure out exactly what the point of anything the characters in this movie were doing . Towards the end we all got bored however , as the initial hilarity and shock of a movie being this random wore off . There is no plot and not a trace of decent acting . The characters are about as well developed as those in a kindergarten `` Learn to Read '' book . They even managed to make a lesbian sex scene uninteresting .
`` Her Cardboard Lover '' is Norma Shearer 's last movie . She quit the movies and , I think , joined the Board of Directors at MGM . That was a good move on her part . `` Her Cardboard Lover '' was talky and boring in parts . It was obvious there were only a handful of actors with speaking parts so they had a lot of dialogue to speak to keep this turkey afloat . The story was a good idea about a wealthy woman ( Norma Shearer ) hiring a man ( Robert Taylor ) to make her playboy fiancee ( George Sanders ) jealous . I am surprised that the director , George Cukor , did not cut many of the talky scenes between Ms. Shearer and Mr. Taylor . Mr. Cukor served Ms. Shearer well in `` The Women '' but not in this movie . The best performance in the movie was given by Robert Taylor . During Mr. Taylor 's career , he was given his best comedy roles in this movie and `` When Ladies Meet '' in 1941 . In 1942 , he gave his best comedy performance in `` Her Cardboard Lover '' and , up to then , his best dramatic performance in `` Johnny Eager . '' He had a busy year . I think of all the actors at MGM , Mr. Taylor worked with all the major and minor actresses on the lot . Also , MGM gave Mr. Taylor all types of movies to make - most of them were successful . That is why MGM kept him for 25 years . Mr. George Sanders was very good as a socialite heel . He played a similar role eight years later in `` All About Eve '' for which he won an Oscar for a supporting role . As for Ms. Shearer , this was one of her worst performances , she was not funny and too dramatic for this comedy . It is strange that she made a great comedy in 1939 , `` The Women '' , and gave her best performance . It was obvious that she was too old looking for her younger leading men in `` Her Cardboard Lover . '' Also , it did n't help that some of her clothes were awful . Too bad she and Mr. Taylor did not make another dramatic movie like their last movie together , the superb `` Escape '' . The same comments about this movie can be said of another movie , `` Personal Property '' that Mr. Taylor made in 1937 with Jean Harlow . It was too talky , boring , and the actress looked old . Ms. Harlow looked ill throughout the movie and nobody in Hollywood noticed to tell her to see a doctor , so in 1937 , she died at age 26 . What a waste ! She was becoming a good actress and getting better roles .
Even when I saw this movie at a teenager , I wondered just how ironic it was that Pia Zadora starred in a movie about an artist who slept her way to the top . As beautiful and sexy as Ms. Zadora is , even she could n't keep this sorry-ass excuse of a movie from tanking . Not even her photoshoot for Penthouse , in which `` The Lonely Lady '' was promoted `` back in the day , '' could keep this movie from tanking . The only thing that could have saved this movie ? A completely different script . Give this one a miss .
At the end of this episode Holmes asks Watson not to record the case for posterity.For a good reason ! The super sleuth left his little grey cells ( sorry Agatha ) at home for this tale . There is no deductive reasoning , no acute analysis of signs at crime scenes . Holmes bumbles along fifty yards behind the plot . The dastardly CAM is finally dealt to by an old frail-in a manner that would have made Charles Bronson 's heart swell with pride-six bullets in the breadbasket.In an ensuing chase a pursuer gets hold of one of Watson 's shoes.Mercifully the writer did n't decide to tack on the story of Cinderella to lengthen the film.The murderess , Holmes and Watson , escape scot free . Oh well , it is a bit of a change of pace in late Victorian London.A bit of sixgun law : - )
Robert DeNiro plays the most unbelievably intelligent illiterate of all time . This movie is so wasteful of talent , it is truly disgusting . The script is unbelievable . The dialog is unbelievable . Jane Fonda 's character is a caricature of herself , and not a funny one . The movie moves at a snail 's pace , is photographed in an ill-advised manner , and is insufferably preachy . It also plugs in every cliche in the book . Swoozie Kurtz is excellent in a supporting role , but so what ? Equally annoying is this new IMDB rule of requiring ten lines for every review . When a movie is this worthless , it does n't require ten lines of text to let other readers know that it is a waste of time and tape . Avoid this movie .
Uh oh ! Another gay film . This time it 's showing the black side . Bet your last dollar it 's gon na have an unhappy ending ! But WHY ? With only less than a half dozen exceptions , ALL gay films have to end in death or an `` addio '' finale . It 's like all the European Film Noir releases in the 40 's , 50 's , 60 's , and 70 's . The lead ... male or female must die or ride off alone into oblivion . Why in God 's name must writers , directors , and producers have the audience leave the theatre feeling depressed ? After all , it 's supposed to be gay ... not glum . Maybe the category should be changed to a 'glum ' film . A large percentage of gay relationships DO last and the couples DO ride off together into the sunset ! No matter who writes or produces , he only shows the down side of gay life and gives the incorrect impression of gay lifestyle . This movie just proves my point . If you rent the DVD , take an antidepressant , for here comes another 'gay ' film ! This is WRONG !
Daraar got off to a pretty good start . The first scene really left me at the edge of my seat wondering what would happen next . Other than that , the first half of the movie is a total BORE . All the first half of the movie is about is Rishi Kapoor falling head over heels in love with Juhi Chawla . By the way , do n't you think he 's a little old for her ? ? ? Things finally start to spice up towards the middle of the film when Juhi tells us about her previous husband ; and wow what a lunatic is he ! He was an over-protective , neat-freak with a really HOT TEMPER ! He used to beat up poor Juhi for no good reason ! One of the reasons I really do n't like this movie is because I ca n't stand to see Juhi ( my favorite actress ) get so abused . This film in general has WAY too much abuse and bloodshed ; I find it so sickening ! ! ! Anyway , all I 'm trying to say is if you 're thinking about renting Daraar , you should put it right back on the shelf where you found it and pick something else !
As far as Spaghetti Westerns go , I 'd put This Man Ca n't Die on the dull side of the genre . It 's not that the movie is particularly bad , but it lacks the brilliance and flash of some of the other SWs I 've seen . Guy Madison does his best in the lead role , but lacks the on-screen charisma necessary to pull it off . With one notable exception , the rest of the cast is n't particularly good . The direction is uninspired and offers very few moments that I have n't seen before . There 's just not much to get very excited about . The cast exception I mentioned is Rosalba Neri . She 's the one bright spot in this otherwise mediocre film . Unfortunately , her screen time is limited to less than 15 minutes . ( Note : The IMDb page for This Man Ca n't Die is wrong . Rosalba Neri does not play Jenny Benson . Instead , she is the character Melin . I 'm not sure how anyone could mistake Rosalba Neri for some guy named John Bartha as listed in IMDb 's credits for the movie . )
I wonder who was responsible for this mess . The jokes would n't have worked for gilligan 's island . If this had gone to series , would there have been jokes about Auschwitz , or would Eva have to replace her oven , only to have Adolf suggest the kind that seats 50 ? ? Another post compared this show to I love Lucy . The problem with this is that Lucille Ball was a genius at physical comedy and bizarre situations , and this mess was just plain badly done and an insult to my intelligence . After the damage the Nazi 's did to England and the number of people they killed , I would think the very concept of a comedy about Hitler would seem repugnant and most normal people would have killed this concept before any episodes were produced .
The deceptive cover , title and very small hidden print of Power of Prayer tricked me into renting this movie . It started out really well and pulled me in . I REALLY liked it . Between 1/3 and 3/4 's of it , the film started throwing in things that were not set up and made no sense . My first thought was , `` This is not written by someone who knows how to tell a story . '' I ended up re-watching parts of the movie , thinking I had missed something . By the time I reached the last 1/5 of the movie , it was all BORING , ANNOYING , RELIGION THUMPING DIALOG that made no sense , said nothing , and was annoying to listen to ; I turned off the sound and did a fast forward to the end . Do n't waste your time with this flick . Beware of DVDs labeled Whitlow Films and Level Path Productions . And I 'm a practicing Catholic .
So 'Thinner ' ... Yep.. This Steven Bachman ( read Steven King ) yarn about a man who gets his just desserts from a Gypsy Elder who he just killed , The story itself is there , no doubt about it , but I do n't know why I did n't enjoy it more than I could have . I guess what really distracted me was the actors . I mean , who 's the lead ? Robert John Burke ? Who 's he ? And fer crying out loud , can someone please stop hiring Joseph Mantegna for every Italian Mafioso role there ever is ? And while we 're at it , does every Mafioso have to have a pasta cooking Italian mother ? The only good acting job done here is under 10 pounds of makeup , Michael Constantine as the Gypsy elder . He 's pretty good . But the rest , I make you all , `` better actors ... ''
I am amazed with some of the reviews of this film . The only place that seems to tell the truth is RottenTomatoes.com . This film is awful . The plot is extremely lazy . It is not scary either . People out there who think that because it stars Sarah Michelle Geller it is somehow like The Grudge should forget about it . This film is more like Dark Water , except it is even more predictable and slow moving than it . I was extremely disappointed with this film . It did n't scare me nor interest me either . Let 's face it , this type of plot has been flogged to death at this stage e.g . the dead trying to contact the living - Dragonfly , What Lies Beneath , Ghost Story , Dark Water , Darkness , The Changeling etc.etc . It seems to me that the only ones writing original horror films nowadays are the Japanese and the Koreans . The films that are coming out of Hollywood , like this , are cynical exercises in money making without a shred of respect for the viewer . They 're just being churned out
It 's been a looooonnnggg time since I saw this comedy , and I 'd forgotten just how idiotic it is . I 'd place this easily in the lower two or three of Elvis Presley 's very worst movies . Presley plays Joe Whitecloud , a half-breed Indian bull rider who returns home to Arizona and the broken-down shack where his family lives , and where his friends love to party all night long . His parents are played by Burgess Meredith and Katy Jurado , and his old Indian grandpa is Thomas Gomez . None of the three offer anything of substance , comically or otherwise . The government has invested in the family 's cattle , but they 're lacking a bull . Elvis gets to sing just a few utterly worthless songs , and is pursued by a young boy-crazy gal and her gun-toting mother . This is just a real slapdash of a mess , and the dilapidated surroundings practically stink of manure and do n't make this much easier . The one thing that puzzles me , however , is that Elvis actually seems to be having a good time in the film . Hard to believe , considering he got so upset about being stuck making so many mediocre movies .
`` Laugh , Clown Laugh '' released in 1928 , stars the legendary Lon Chaney as a circus clown named Tito . Tito has raised a foundling ( a young and beautiful Loretta Young ) to adulthood and names her Simonetta . Tito has raised the girl in the circus life , and she has become an accomplished ballerina . While Chaney gives his usual great performance , I could not get past the fact that Tito , now well into middle age , has the hots for the young Simonetta . Although he is not her biological father , he has raised her like a daughter . That kind of `` ick '' factor permeates throughout the film . Tito competes for Simonetta 's affections with a young and handsome 'Count ' Luigi ( Nils Asther ) . Simonetta clearly falls for the young man , but feels guilt about abandoning Tito ( out of loyalty , not romantic love ) . The whole premise of the film is ridiculous , and I find it amazing that no one in the film tells Tito what a stupid old fool he is being ( until he reveals it himself at the end ) . The film is noteworthy only because of Loretta Young , who would go on to have a great career . While I adore Chaney 's brilliance as an actor , this whole film seems off to me and just downright creepy .
Patrick Channing ( Jeff Kober ) is a disciple of Satan / serial killer who possesses the `` First Power '' : even after being captured by detective Russell Logan ( Lou Diamond Phillips ) and executed in the gas chamber , he is able to move his spirit from body to body and continue to murder at will . With the help of attractive psychic Tess Seaton ( Tracy Griffith , Melanie G. 's half-sister ) he attempts to stop Channing . This concept probably had some possibilities , I think , but ultimately `` The First Power '' suffers from routine scripting and film-making . This is nothing we have n't seen before , sometimes done better . There is nothing about this movie to distinguish it from other supernatural horror thrillers . More to the point , it 's not very thrilling and it certainly is n't scary . Phillips is a hard sell as a tough-as-nails , cynical cop stereotype , and Griffith does n't seem to be trying very hard ; best cast member is probably the distinctively featured Kober , doing his best to be supremely creepy . The climax is rather silly and the ending very weak . Not really even acceptable enough to rate as an average film of its kind , therefore : 4/10
I 've barely just made it through one episode ( `` Crouch End '' ) . The dialog was stilted and down-right cringe worthy . The acting was tragic . Eion Bailey , despite his best attempts to be dramatic , remains mostly expressionless . His eyebrows hint at a recent botox treatment . Claire Forlani could have just as easily been playing the damsel in distress in a silent movie . The characters were cartoons , each playing their stereotypical cog in the plot mostly random , meandering plot . Cheesy special effects can be excused given the TV miniseries budget . But attempts to create suspense and surprise through distracting cinematography added to the unwatchability . I get the feeling that the ending was supposed to be witty and surprising , but it was lame and had little to do with the rest of the story . If I had to compare it 's overall quality to something else , I 'd put this episode of `` Nightmares and Dreamscapes '' on par with the NBC 's Hercules .
Do n't get me wrong , I 'm a huge fan of many of Woody 's movies , obviously his late 70 's masterpieces ( Annie Hall , Interiors , Manhattan ) and most of his late 80's/early 90 's dramas ( Hannah , Crimes and Misdemeaners , Husbands and Wives ) in fact I even liked some of his more recent efforts ( Melinda , Anything Else , Small Time Crooks ) but this was abysmal , I though it could n't possibly be any worse than last years Match Point but how wrong I was . It was lazily plotted - basically a cross between Match Point , Manhattan Murder Mystery and Small Time Crooks , with all the jokes taken out - Woody seems to be on the way out as well , slurring most of his lines and delivering 'hilarious ' catchphrases 'I mean that with all due respect ... ' over and over until the blandness of it all becomes to much to bare . I know that most actors are queuing up to work with him but they should at least read the script first - Scarlett Johansson and Hugh Jackman are so much better than this - and Woody should really take a more behind the camera role in future , if he has any sense about 20 miles behind it . It would n't be so tragic if we did n't have so many great Woody films to compare this to - but it is clear that his best days are behind him and judging by this effort , Woody should call it a day before he becomes an industry joke . Embarrassingly bad
It 's getting worse , the series is on a serious down fall . The first two sequel were acceptable and from then on we have seen a buch of really , really terrible movies . Robert Englund gives another great performance as Freddy but the rest of the cast ca n't act . The story is Alice , having survived the previous installment of the Nightmare series , finds the deadly dreams of Freddy Krueger starting once again . This time , the taunting murderer is striking through the sleeping mind of Alice 's unborn child . His intention is to be `` born again '' into the real world . The only one who can stop Freddy is his dead mother , but can Alice free her spirit in time to save her own son ? Check out the first three , miss the next three then watch the last one .
The movie has one nude scene : A man sitting on the edge of the bed , with his exposed genitals smack dab in the middle of the screen . It is quite a long scene . What was the point ? I almost think it was meant to be funny but we were watching it with my mother and it was n't funny to have THAT staring at us for what seemed like a full minute . The movie is cold . None of the characters are even likeable . Audrey Tatou is cute , of course , but her character is an unhappy girl . I really would not recommend this movie . I had expected it to be charming and fresh but it was depressing . I wondered if the director was from a very upper crust , educated French family and he looks down on these characters .
If derivative and predictable rape-revenge thrillers are your thing , then you 're in for a rare treat ... They do n't really appeal to me , so I could n't find any single thing to redeem this peculiar tale . It seems like something straight out of the 1980s , a different age when this would have gone straight to video . Gillian Anderson and Danny Dyer do OK work with a weak script and a tedious scenario . But what is Gillian Anderson doing getting involved with a film like this after the brilliance of her performance as Lady Deadlock in the BBC TV adaptation of Bleak House last year ? The director is said to have been influenced by witnessing a near-rape and by his work on documentaries , but even that 's not an excuse for the bizarre scene where a pack of rural hounds beat up Dyer . I do n't think I was the only person in the cinema laughing . What I ca n't understand is the involvement of the companies behind this film - FilmFour and Verve Pictures . Both have been involved in some great independent British films in recent years . Verve distributed Bullet Boy , Code 46 and Red Road - Straightheads does n't deserve to be mentioned in the same breath . FilmFour and Verve take note : is this really the best you can do ? What are independent British filmmakers going to make of your artistic judgement ? It 's a big blot on both of your reputations . Listen carefully : can you hear the thousands of fans of independent British films crying in despair ?
`` Hey everybody ! I 've got an idea , we found this egg-shaped thingie from outer space so why do n't we thaw it out and open it up ? '' `` Yes , I know that would be the dumbest thing a scientist could do , and it could be filled with contaminating bacteria or viruses unknown to earth and could potentially wipe out the human race , but hey , I want to know what 's in it '' . `` And nobody tell NASA , they might take it away from us '' . `` Wow this thingie gives off vibes ! '' `` Yes , really strong ones on contact so do n't touch it but it 's okay to cut it open '' . `` Hi there handsome , check out my nips '' . ( Later that day ) ; `` DO NOT OPEN '' ! ! ! ! ! Uh oh , we have to run all the way to the lab and tell them not to open it because we do n't have phones or radios or intercoms even though we have a gazillion dollars worth of other equipment here . `` I 've never seen such organic technology ! '' `` Yeah , lem me take this stick and stab it. '' . `` I 'm getting out of here , I do n't care if I do kill the other 6 billion people on Earth , nobody 's nukkin ' me ! '' `` Look ! it 's the friendly aliens from `` The Abyss '' ! They want us to come with them '' . THE END
The premise of Cabin Fever starts like it MIGHT have something to offer . A group of college teens after finals ( in the fall ? ) goes to a resort cabin in the woods where one by one they are attacked by an unseen flesh eating virus . Unfortunately , the first paragraph is where any remote elements of film quality stop . Cabin Fever is little more than college kids looking for sex , booze , talking non-stop about nothing , and seeing how many F-bombs they can get into 1:40 minutes or however long this mess is . The kids act and react stupidly to everything around them . One of them for instance discovers that the skin virus has infected her legs , so what does she do ? She keeps shaving her legs failing to take proper medical attention for her wounds . The scene is little more than a gross out . In another scene , Rider Strong from `` Boy Meets World '' gets bitten on the hand by some kid who only says `` Pancakes '' and likes to do karate kicks on those who sit next to him . If you can figure out the reason for why the `` Pancakes '' kid was included , I 'd love to know . Anyway , Rider pets a wild dog and goes off to wash his bitten hand in a most likely contaminated creek . Another kid likes to drop F-bombs in reacting to everything around him and shoot squirrels . Why ? Your guess is as good as mine ! Rider Strong is the ONLY kid with any recognition in this movie . He tries to calm people down in-between the yelling and screaming and F*** Y** ! bombs that people are throwing around . When the kids are n't yelling , they are having or talking about sex or talking nonsense to the other adult characters who are EVEN MORE ( if that is possible ) idiotic than the kids ! The idiot cop with an IQ of 60 at best may be one of the WORST acting jobs I have ever seen in a movie . You talk about people not playing with a full deck , this dork does n't even know how to find the cards ! LOL ! I was like , `` Will you PLEASE shut up already ? ! '' He makes the kid actors look like geniuses ! The only part that I sort of liked was Rider 's scary story ( although gory ) about the deranged bowling alley guy . In interviews , Rider said that he had a great deal of respect for director Eli Roth . But the problem is that Mr. Roth appears to be going for little more than shock and gore . There are far too many bad things about this movie for Mr. Roth to get any credit . I wish I could agree with Rider and find something likable about this movie . Maybe the fall scenery in the beginning ? Actually , Rider Strong JUST saves this movie from being a 1 ! Hopefully , he was compensated for this junk !
Wow , this film was just bloody horrid . SO bad in fact that even though I did n't pay to see it , I still wanted my money back . The film is about nothing intelligible . It 's a mish-mash of sci-fi cliche 's that were done better by much more skilled film makers . The performances , especially by the leads were over the top in a less endearing Ed Wood sort of way . Speaking of Ed Wood , he 'd be proud of the character 's dialogue . It 's just too taciturn with no hint of irony or sense of humor . On top of that , it does n't make sense , nor does the plot , or lackthereof . The visual effects are okay , but not enough to go `` oh wow , that 's cool '' and they just seem to be thrown in to `` be cool '' rather than be a good plot device . The soundtrack was another mishmash of stuff that really never set any sort of mood . Again , it seemed as if the director was just throwing in songs in the film in an effort to `` be cool '' . Which brings me to my final point . Perhaps if the director actually worried more about plot , story and dialogue instead of trying to `` be cool '' , he would n't have made such a dorky cliche ' of a short film .
This movie is another one on my List of Movies Not To Bother With . Saw it 40 years ago as an adolescent , stayed up late to do so , was very annoyed to find that it was about 95 % romance,4 % everything else , 1 % history if that . It 's what I call a bait and switch movie , one with an interesting title , the actual movie is a scam . This is a subject which deserves a good cinematic treatment , this movie is almost an insult to those who served . The actual members of the Lafayette Escadrille were not on the run from the law nor were they the products of abusive homes , they were in reality idealists who wanted to do something to help France . And I suspect many of them came from a more upper class background than Tab Hunter 's character . Flying school is not for the smart alecks and the know it alls , an individual such as the one portrayed here would n't have lasted two days , it would have either been the stockade or the infantry . Discipline in the French Army was often rather fierce . In short , another Hollywierd version of an historical episode that deserves proper treatment .
A very ordinary made-for-tv product , `` Tyson '' attempts to be a serious biopic while stretching the moments of angst for effect , fast forwarding through the esoterics of the corrupt sport of boxing , and muddling the sensationalistic stuff which is the only thing which makes Tyson even remotely interesting . A lukewarm watch at best which more likely to appeal to the general public than to boxing fans .
In a word , this film was boring . It lacked life and spark . A big problem is with the two leads . Jude Law and Gwyneth Paltrow had no chemistry whatsoever . He was boring , and she was annoying . The visuals were interesting , but they did n't enhance the scenes . If anything , the visuals tended to detach the audience from what was happening on screen . None of the action sequences felt real , and hence , the film failed to create any real drama or a sense of danger . The film had potential , but it needed a better script , better acting , and a better director . I kept thinking during the film , you know , this movie would 've worked if Harrison Ford was Sky Captain , Karen Allen was Polly , and Steven Spielberg was the director . Ignore the critical acclaims for this film . The critics I think are praising the film because they *want* to like it and want it to succeed even though it fails on so many different levels .
Do n't listen to the misleading title `` Werewolf Woman '' . The Europeans are well known for putting an emphasis on sex and nudity over actual scares in their horror films , but this one here is just a bit too much . `` Werewolf Woman '' seems to have a sleazy sex scene copped off with the title character going crazy and brutally killing her partner . Fun the first few times , but a hundred minutes of this becomes very monotonous quickly . Shes not even a werewolf , but a schizo chick whose ancestor was hanged for lycanthropy . The film ca n't even decide its tone , with the first ten minutes ( a flashback ) being legitimate supernatural horror ( I thought I was in for a trash classic after these ) to a rather poor character study of the female being repeatedly abused and tortured to a revenge thriller . At the end , the director insists this is based on a true story . Yeah , all right . To be fair , there are a few entertaining aspects of the production . The title werewolf woman is a looker and there are a few nice gore effects and nude scenes . However , these become rather monotonous quickly . Also , the dubbed dialog is pretty hilarious in a camp fashion , especially the worlds most swinging doctor ( he drinks on the job ) . Unfortunately , the film becomes pretty irritating fast . There 's no actual plot or anything else really . Its a shame , because reading a description I felt the film had some real potential . `` Werewolf Woman '' is far overlong , slow moving , and a bit too pointless , even by the standards of the exploitation genre . ( 4/10 )
If they could get Ed Asner why did n't they get other actors instead of people who go to the same church as the producers ? And why did the protagonist throw the wise old sage character to the ground when he was never in danger . It forced the old guy to mask the injury out of pride and so the young guy would feel guilty leaving him with a life long disability . I guess thats why the main character refuses money though and why the old guy works him like a dog even when he volunteers for extra work . If the d-bag boyfriend is a bad guy because he is long-distance boyfriend then why is a soldier any better . He has good reason to be jealous , good reason to get her away from her hometown and over protective , controlling manipulative father . All the characters that are meant to be likable are n't and everyone else is the 'bad ' boyfriend . How did they meet anyway , a wine broker and a saw mill worker ?
warning : It contains spoilers . If a movie starts with a sex scene then it 's a bad movie . ( see for example 300 ) . This one confirms the above lemma . The second scene constitutes the spinning center of all the action . The fact that we know the end makes the movie boring . Even more , other plots are revealed as the story goes back and forth several times . And this made more frustrated . To compensate the consequent lack of suspense , we learn more and more about how unbalanced are the characters . And oh yes , they have lots to show . Andy ( P.Hoffman ) , for example , is a drug addict , more ? , he is cheating his wife , more ? , he plans to rob his father , more ? , his wife is cheating with his brother , more ? , he does n't regret his complicity to his mother 's death , more ? , he is a serial killer , more ? etc etc it 's not enough space to write here ... I wonder how could he have a top job . And why his wife did n't leave him before . On the other hand I enjoy much the performances of the actor Hoffman . Even here PSH saves what is left from my 7 $ spent for this absurdity . Why absurdity ? Because it does n't have sense , why should I care for the despicable characters ? Another broken lemma is that a movie should have a sympathetic ( at least pleasant ) character . Also it 's a lot of sentimentality , for example we are supposed to care for the sufferance of the widowed father without knowing anything about the parents'lives before the crime .
The movie seems disjointed and overall , poorly written . The screenplay moves along as if 10 different people wrote it , and none of them were communicating with each other . Apparently they wanted to take a page from a Miracle on 34th Street ( the original ) type film , but it is done in such a poor way that the movie falls apart . This film is for only the very young , and even THEY will see the fact that whoever scripted it knows little to nothing about baseball . Such as : • When the Angels are in dead last place , the owner does n't seem to care , nor is he bothered by the fact his manager just got into a fight with his pitcher – ON THE MOUND – or that he PUNCHED the team 's play by play announcer on live TV . However , when the team is one game from winning the Division , he gets bent out of shape over a story ( sourced by a 6 year old ) that the manager is getting help from a kid who claims to see real angels . What sounds worse ? A losing violent out of control manager whose team has lost 15 in a row ? Or a winning coach on the verge of the playoffs that is acting a bit eccentric and is helping foster kids ? The owner 's reaction makes no sense . And he 's moved to change his mind by Maggie and her 'straight out of cliché land ' speech during a news conference . • The Angels are supposed to be playing for the Division in the final weekend series against the White Sox , however at the end of the game the announcer 's keep saying the Angels 'won the pennant '' . The pennant is not decided until someone wins the LEAGUE championship , not the regular season division title . • Whitt Bass , the goofball pitcher is the starting pitcher and wins the game that breaks the Angels losing streak – then is the starting pitcher – THE VERY NEXT DAY . • Mel Clark ( Tony Danza ) is said in the ninth inning to have thrown 156 pitches , in a low-scoring ballgame . Typically in low scoring games , the pitch count is MUCH lower than this , usually around 80-90 pitches . • `` AL '' the angel says at the end `` Championships have to be won on their own '' , even though he and his angels have been manipulating and fixing games throughout the whole second half of the season . I could go on and on , as there are MANY other examples where the story is poorly written . For younger kids ( under 10 ) , this movie may be entertaining . It 's too bad – done right this could have been a classic . Done wrong like this and it 's a forgettable mess that will forever live as a UHF/cable Saturday Morning washout .
one of the worst films i have seen to date . Pathetic action scene and really bad acting also do not help . The only good point is Gary busey 's parts but this does not lift the film very much . it lives up to its B film ranking and passes the test with flying colours . A waste of my money although i found entertaining to begin with its gets annoying after a few watches . i do not recommend this film unless you watch it for free or its a gift . ( a gift you can ask for the receipt and send back for a complete refund ) . Really BAd . 1/10 .
A reasonable effort is summary for this film . A good sixties film but lacking any sense of achievement . Maggie Smith gave a decent performance which was believable enough but not as good as she could have given , other actors were just dreadful ! A terrible portrayal . It was n't very funny and so it did n't really achieve its genres as it was n't particularly funny and it was n't dramatic . The only genre achieved to a satisfactory level was romance . Target Audiences were not hit and the movie sent out confusing messages . A very basic plot and a very basic storyline were not pulled off or performed at all well and people were left confused as to why the film was n't as good and who the target audiences were etc . However Maggie was quite good and the storyline was alright with moments of capability . 4 .
This movie is about a very sexy Olympic track star who is hired to coach a high school boys ' basketball team . Similar to Goldie Hawn 's WILDCATS , it stars Cathy Lee Crosby in the title role , and she does as about as well as the script allows . I think Racquel Welch would have been a better choice , but considering the film 's apparent TV movie budget , they probably could n't afford her . Cathy Lee does look great in every shot , but we never get to see her completely nude . The story is pretty predictable , to say the least , offering no surprises . A young and lucky Michael Biehn has the male lead role . He is the star on the team and also the love interest for Cathy Lee . Keenan Wynn has a few amusing scenes as the rich old man who runs the athletic program and does n't think a woman should coach sports . This point is brought up throughout the film , and , needless to say , is dated . Ironically , Cathy Lee does n't put her team through any unorthodox practice sessions ; she does n't do anything a male coach would n't do . There is a funny subplot involving a tall and not-so-bright player who undergoes hypnosis in order to pass his classes and play like pro basketball player Sydney Wicks . It looks like everyone had a good time making this film , but the only real reason to see it is for Cathy Lee Crosby . She 's not that great an actress , but she has a dazzling smile , beautiful hair , and a very tan body .
I know I 've already added a comment but I just wanted to clarify something ... I 'm not some old fogey from the Baby Boom generation that grew up glued to a flickering b/w picture of Phil Silvers , Jackie Gleason etc . Bilko was already 20 years old before I was born but I had the pleasure of discovering Phil Silver 's Bilko courtesy of BBC2 . I wonder if I would have enjoyed Steve Martin 's travesty if I had n't seen or heard of Phil Silvers - I do n't know - maybe I would have . Some of the other reviewers who think this movie is worthy of a '10 ' admit that they have n't seen the original . I can only urge you to spend 21 minutes of your life watching a single episode . If after watching the original Ernie , Colonel Hall , Ritzig & Emma , Duane Doberman , Henshaw , Dino , Flashman , Zimmerman , Mullin et al you still think that Steve Martin 's film is woth anything above a '2 ' - I 'll stand you a pint ... .
I have only seen Gretchen Mol in two other films ( Girl 6 , Donnie Brasco ) , and do n't really remember her , but she did a great job as a naive girl who posed for pictures because it made people happy . She really did n't think what she was doing was wrong , even when she left the business and found her religion again . The photos she made were certainly tame by today 's standards , and it is funny seeing men with cameras get all excited , and politicians pontificating on the evils of pornography . David Strathairn ( Good Night , and Good Luck ) played a super part here . Mary Harron ( American Psycho ) wrote and directed an outstanding biopic of the most famous pinup girl ever .
I had read many good things about this adaptation of my favorite novel ... so invariably my expectations were crushed . But they were crushed more than should be expected . The movie would have been a decent movie if I had not read the novel beforehand , which perhaps ruined it for me . In any event , for some reason they changed the labor camp at Toulon to a ship full of galley slaves . The scene at Bishop Myriel 's was fine . In fact , other than the galleys , things survived up until the dismissal of Fantine . Because we do not want to have bad things happen to a good woman , she does not cut her hair , sell her teeth , or become a prostitute . The worst she does is run into the mayor 's office and spit on his face . Bamatabois is entirely eliminated . Because having children out of wedlock should also not be talked about , Tholomyes is Fantine 's dead husband , rather than an irresponsible dandy . Valjean is able to fetch Cosette for Fantine before the Champmathieu affair , so they reunite happily , yet another change . Then comes the convent , which is a pretty difficult scene to screw up . Thankfully , it was saved . After this three minutes of accuracy , however , the movie again begins to hurtle towards Classic Novel Butchering . As Cosette and Valjean are riding through the park , they come across Marius giving a speech at a meeting . About prison reform . When he comes to hand out fliers to Valjean and Cosette , he says the one line in the movie that set me screaming at the TV set . `` We are n't revolutionaries . '' I could hear Victor Hugo thrashing in his grave . OF COURSE THEY ARE REVOLUTIONARIES ! They want to revolt against the pseudo-monarchy that is in place in favor of another republic , you dumb screenwriters ! It 's a historical FACT that there was an insurrection against the government in 1832 . At one point Cosette goes to give Marius a donation from her father for the reform movement and meets Eponine . Except ... not Eponine . Or at least not the Eponine of the book . This Eponine appears to be a well-to-do secretary girl working for the prison reformers ( who are working out of the Cafe Universal as opposed to the Cafe Musain ) . Not to mention the audience is already made to dislike her thanks to her not-period , low-cut , tight-fitting dress and her snooty mannerisms . The prison reformers ( Lead by the most poorly cast Enjolras that I have EVER seen ) decide that handing out pamphlets is n't good enough anymore . So they 're going to build barricades . I do n't know about you , but I have never heard of reform movements tearing up the streets and building barricades and attacking government troops . About three hundred people ( it was not supposed to be so many ) start attacking the National Guard and building a bunch of barricades , etc . Eponine does die for Marius , thankfully . The rest of the movie is sort of accurate , except that Javert 's suicide again seems hard to understand thanks to his minuscule screen time and odd character interpretation . The movie ends with Valjean watching Javert jump into the river . This is again inaccurate because Valjean would never have let Javert drown . He saved the man 's life earlier , why let him die now ? Then there 's the whole skipping of Valjean 's confession to Marius , his deterioration , and his redemption on his deathbed with Marius and Cosette by his side . Overall , I can blame the script mostly for the problems . While I am glad Enjolras and Eponine were at least present in the film , they were terribly misinterpreted , as was the entire barricade scene . The elimination of Fantine 's suffering prevents us from feeling too much pity for her . That Cosette knows Valjean 's past from the start messes with the plot a good deal . I did not even see Thenardier , and Mme . Thenardier only had a few seconds of screen time . The same with Gavroche . I did like Frederich March 's interpretation of Valjean a lot , however , which was one of the redeeming features of the movie . On the other hand , Charles Laughton , for all his great acting in other movies , seems to have missed the mark with Javert . The lip tremble , the unnecessary shouting , and his acting in general all just felt very wrong . He also , like many Javerts I have seen , did not appear at all menacing , something required of the character . Again , this film would probably feel much better if I had not read the book . I would not recommend it to book purists , though . I would also say that the movie would have been a good adaptation for the time had not the infamously accurate French version come out the year before .
This film was a critical and box-office fiasco back in 1957 . It was based on a novel which was later turned into a play -- which flopped on Broadway . The story is about some navy officers on leave in San Francisco during WWII . They have 4 day 's leave which they spend at the Mark Hopkins hotel . The film meanders a lot and none of the characters seem very real . Cary Grant is generally brilliant in comedy and drama -- but here he plays a sort of wheeler dealer and he does n't really pull it off . Tony Curtis or James Garner would have been better choices . Audrey Hepburn was initially set to play opposite Grant , but had other commitments -- so Suzy parker stepped in . She had never acted before , but was America 's top photographic model at the time . I think that she did a good job , considering all the pressure that she was under . Grant 's pairing with Jayne Mansfield in a few brief scenes -- did not really work . The Studio was trying to give her some class by acting with Grant -- but the character had no substance at all .
I wasted my time and gave this show a chance . This has to be one of the worst new shows . If they gave an award to shows that suck THIS one should sweep the category . The acting is poor and the story line is contrived . Now Dinosaurs was a bit strange but at least it was entertaining . That show lasted three seasons and was finally scraped . This new show , based on an insurance companies commercials , is not funny and really has nothing going for it . Possibly the original commercials and the amount of times they were , and still are , repeated is what is wrong with this show . It just came to TV and already we are tired of seeing the `` caveman '' characters .
The first episode of this new show was on today , and it was horrible . Not only did Shaggy have a squeaky new voice that made listening to his lines torture , but it 's so far away from the original concept and animation style that it 's barely recognizable as a 'Scooby-Doo ' show . Even back in the dark days when Fred and Velma were gone and Scooby 's nephew Scrappy was there , the team still solved mysteries . This new show instead features Shaggy and Scooby battling a James Bond type super-villain and his henchmen while living in a mansion . There 's not even a van called 'The Mystery Machine ' ( and the teaser for the next episode which promised a transformers type robot car did NOT put my mind at ease ) . How can anyone take Scooby Doo and make THIS ? The show earns two point for two scenes featuring the whole Scooby Doo gang , all of whom speak with the correct voices except Shaggy , and even then I 'm being far too generous .
Well done Al Gore ! You have become the first person to have made 1 Billion dollars of the global warming lie ! Just like all the other man made fable 's in the world this one is up there with the best lies to have sucked in so many people . Sure polution is not a good thing , and I would love for all the tree 's to keep on growing , but global warming is a business ! It employes thousands of people that are all very mislead . Google it ! There are just to many things that just do n't add up , but well done Al , you failed as a politician , but went on to make lots of money sucking in the world . Whats next ? Santa is real ?
This has got to be one of the worst fillums I 've ever seen and I 've seen a few . It is slow , boring , amateurish - not even consistent within its own simplistic reading of the plot . The actors do not act . I ca n't blame them - they have been given a script of such utter banality all they can do is trudge through it with a pain behind their eyes which has nothing to do with the evil goings on in SummersIsle . There is not one moment in this film that rings true - not an honest line nor a single instant where one is moved . The Nicholas Cage character is so badly drawn that one feels not a smidgeon of compassion for him through all his tribulations . I have no doubt that I was seeing a suffering man up there but it was Nicholas Cage fully aware of the fact that he was in the worst movie of his entire career .
Imagine turning the American national anthem into a cartoon . Throw in a couple of cute animals , some terrible puns and a pair of roller skates and you 'd find yourself with almost an exact replica of this film . I remember seeing this when I was younger ; I made my Mother rent it from the video shop about 5 times . The story itself is n't too bad , it 's just that any Marxists watching would certainly have something to complain about . If you do n't like America you wo n't like this film .
I do n't think I 've ever felt this let down by a film before . After loving Guy Ritchie 's two previous films ( I do n't count Swept Away - he was pussy blind ) , I was so looking forward to seeing this . The reviews were poor , then again , I do n't trust the press anyway . More worrying was the fact that the internet buzz was that this was a bit of a stinker , so it was with some trepidation I handed over my £4.80 yesterday afternoon . I 'm not even going to try to explain this film , mainly because I have n't got a clue what was going on and at one point I was honestly close to standing up and asking if it was just me who did n't get it ! Unfortunately I think Ritchie seems to have fallen into his wife 's trap of taking himself far too seriously.It seems it was n't good enough for him to make films with good plots , laughs , snappy dialogue and good characters . It 's almost as if he had a checklist of films he wanted to rip off , here are some of the ones I noticed : The Matrix , Fight Club , Kill Bill , The Usual Suspects , Vanilla Sky ... I think the most frustrating thing is that the performances from the two main actors , Jason Statham and Ray Liotta , were actually very good and it was really the self indulgent story and editing / direction that let the film down . So a big , big thumbs down from me .
A charming boy and his mother move to a middle of nowhere town , cats and death soon follow them . That about sums it up . I 'll admit that I am a little freaked out by cats after seeing this movie . But in all seriousness in spite of the numerous things that are wrong with this film , and believe me there is plenty of that to go around , it is overall a very enjoyable viewing experience . The characters are more like caricatures here with only their basis instincts to rely on . Fear , greed , pride lust or anger seems to be all that motivate these people . Although it can be argued that that seeming failing , in actuality , serves the telling of the story . The supernatural premise and the fact that it is a Stephen King screenplay ( not that I have anything specific against Mr. King ) are quite nicely supported by some interesting FX work , makeup and quite suitable music . The absolute gem of this film is without a doubt Alice Krige who plays Mary Brady , the otherworldly mother . King manages to take a simple story of outsider , or people who are a little different ( okay - a lot in this case ) , trying to fit in and twists it into a campy over the top little horror gem that has to be in the collection of any horror fan .
Josh Hartnett 's dead eyes , the thick writing of it , and Harrison Ford being in a buddy-cop comedy ! Here 's 3 reasons to hate it , avoid it , and to utilize 116 minutes of your life better . The buddy-cop movies are fun . However their real golden age was back in the 1980s and the 1990s . Making one that tries to mix action and comedy through the police of Hollywood itself is sure a good idea but the final result of that turned out to be not at least a spoof of the subgenre but a reason to ask God to have mercy upon all the past movies of the same kind whereas the worst of them was by all means greater than ( Hollywood Homicide ) . What really did happen to this entertaining formula ? ! Since a whole decade the things had n't been the same . You 'd have a buddy-action stubborn flop after another . I 'll delight you with some titles to catch on the disaster well : ( I Spy - 2002 ) , ( National Security - 2003 ) , ( Taxi - 2004 ) , ( Starsky & Hutch - 2004 ) , and the worst of them all yet ( Miami Vice - 2006 ) ! I believe one of the reasons is the natural case of saturation after many similar cinematic flicks and TV shows during 2 decades already . Add to that , particularly here , the negligent dealing and the dull humor . Actually the matter this time is totally unbearable . Yes , we 've got the characters of 2 loyal cops who have second jobs , and the background of sinful city , but what else was new ? ! It 's not about cliché ; it 's about few renewals mixed with clichés where both have been badly made . The acting , especially from ( Hartnett ) 's side , is terrible . This guy is anything but a comedian ( or actor ! ) . So his character was wanting to revenge for his father 's death ! Revenge on yourself man , he probably died out of watching your acting ! ! . Even the small roles got people that have nothing to do with comedy ( or that 's what they seemed here anyhow ! ) . The directing fails in presenting something that comic or that harsh , some parts managed to be highly dull ( arresting the black guy through the lack ? ? ) ; it 's a rare time to be boring in what supposed to be action/comedy ! They did n't utilize Hollywood itself whether as an ironic place where there is ugly face behind the superficial charm , or even as a place which 's full of shining or fallen stars ( cameos that could 've given it few interesting moments ) . It 's a very easy movie that relayed on being watchable by only its stars ' glamour , and as being a Buddy-cop movie to end up as one of the worst cases of 2 stars with non-chemistry on the screen ( one of them has no chemistry with the screen itself ! Guess who ? ! ) , and a Buddy-Cop destroyer more than movie ! God , do n't make me , or my children , live enough to witness ( Hollywood Homicide – Part 2 ) ! At last , look at Harrison Ford 's performance , he wanted to have a good time , but at least we did n't .
I went to see it in hopes of some good old fashioned Alice Entertainment.Once I realized I would not be getting that , I watched it for a pretty well made movie ( in terms of filming , and yeah..that was it ) .But aside from it having a good film quality , considering I had been watching grainy movies all day long , there was nothing good about that movie . He killed 42.Why were Tweedle Dee and Dum played by Mudler and Scully ? Serisouly , Who can answer that for me ? Who can answer anything awful about this movie for me . I agree with whoever said it was just one big long inside joke for the staff.That 's all it seemed to be . Poor Mr.Carroll.I 'm so sorry somebody did that to his wonderful tales .
DRACULA 2000 is a horror film that was continually shown on Sky Movies in Britain and considering it seemed to be screened about three times a week for a whole year I have absolutely no idea how I managed to miss it until it ` s first broadcast on network television tonight . Actually seeing as I ` m not much of a fan of horror movies the reason was probably down to my theory that this was going to be tripe . My theory was proved right for the most part ! ! ! ! ! MINOR SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! What makes DRACULA 2000 such a bad movie is the amount of dumb scripting involved . For example early in the film the bad guys are flying Dracula ` s coffin from London to America ( In a twin engine turbo prop plane ! ) and one of the bad guys is left alone in the cargo hold where Dracula comes to life . A fight breaks out , there ` s lots of noise but the bad guys in the cockpit don ` t hear a sound until the script demands it . It also appears in this segment ` s climax that Dracula can control the weather but this seems forgotten about as the film progresses . Sloppy scripting , and there also seems to be a problem with the structure where there ` s numerous scenes of characters being at the New Orleans mardi gras then the characters being at a different location such as police station in the following scene then they ` re back at the mardi gras the scene after that which means the lack of credibilty in the plot is enhanced There ` s something else that yanked my chain - Product placement . There ` s umpteen scenes where the logo for a certain record label/retailer chain is in full view . I won ` t dare publicise the company brand ( Except to say they also run a train company which is a national joke in Britain ) but I was under the impression this type of advertising was against British broadcasting guidlines and I ` m surprised the BBC showed this movie if that ` s the case There are some positives in DRACULA 2000 like the visuals for example . This is actually a good looking movie with a good looking cast and boy were those vampire chicks hot , but it ` s something we should expect from Hollywood over the last few years - A very good looking movie that ` s very dumb
As the summary says you just made the most ignorant comment i have ever heard on an RPG . You seriously thought they were gay ? Are you retarded ? If you went to go save your best friend and someone decides out of the goodness of his heart to help you then you are in a serious debt to that man . Lavitz was a good person and each time they helped each other it made them closer as friends . They were n't gay lovers like your bitching about . And to let you know the game is set in a medieval time period . Back then , women did just prepare meals while the men fought . Do you even know your history ? Do you know how long it took for women to be accepted in the army in present day ? This game contains a lot of realism even though your too damn slow obviously to catch it , and you really need to spit out some solid proof instead of ignorant assumptions based off your misguided act to interpret the story .
This film is so unbelievable ; - the whole premise is bunkum ; the fact that a serial killer ( vampire or otherwise ) could fly around untraced and kill as many people as the film implies is laughable . The vampire himself would not look out of place in a Bela Lugosi film . Most of the acting is so wooden the actors should be treated for dry rot . I await the day when someone makes a decent film from a Steven King novel ( with the exception , possibly , of Stand by Me ) . This film suffers from what most Stephen King films do - lack of money used for the `` special '' effects , poor actors , appalling characterisation and dialogue . This film is cheap , tacky and fails in everything it tries to do .
This movie is unbelievably ridiculous . I love horror movies , but this is the worst one I 've ever seen . I am a huge fan of gore , but most of the deaths in this movie are n't shown . It just shows us the already dead bodies , and the only death scenes that they actually show in this movie are terrible . The graphics look so obviously fake . The actors are awful as well . There is no real emotion from any of them . Not only did I waste my time watching this piece of sh*t movie , but I had to subject myself to actual footage of animals being beaten during the beginning of it . If I could rate this a -10 , I would . F*ck this movie . It 's crap . Do n't watch it .
`` People I Know '' is a clunker with no one to root for and no one to care about -- despite the game efforts of a talented cast . Pacino delivers his usual tour de force as Eli Wurman , a past-his-prime publicity agent hollowed out by a lifetime of moral corruption . But unlike Michael Corleone , it 's impossible to have an emotional investment in this character , his dilemma , or his fate . The film traces Eli 's preparations for a benefit for a liberal political cause , while distracted by a client 's ( Ryan O'Neal , good in an underwritten part ) latest `` dirty laundry '' -- in this case , a TV actress companion who 's gotten involved with the wrong people . Tea Leoni brings her customary star power to this supporting role , although again , the script does n't give her much to work with . As Eli 's sister-in-law , Kim Basinger manages to evoke sympathy despite implausible plot mechanics . This movie is strictly for those who like watching Pacino strut his stuff , and enjoy the other principals . Unfortunately , between the script and direction , `` People I Know '' is strictly amateurish . Hence its limited theatrical release , and speedy journey to DVD . Consider yourself warned .
I think its pretty safe to say that this is the worst film ever made , When I saw the trailer on TV i knew right from second 1 that this would be a piece of **** and it would be best to avoid it , but I somehow got dragged into seeing this by some friends , I walked into the cinema with low expectations but i was hoping there would be a couple of cheap laughs to keep me awake during this film . The so-called `` jokes '' in this film bring a cringe to the face , they are mostly comprised of people taking hits to the face and balls , the baby looking weird and acting like a horny gangsta and the typical race jokes we see so often in todays garbage comedies . The film is obvious and the story is not only impossible to believe but also predictable and dull . The characters are extremely annoying and heavily stereotyped . I never want to have to see this **** film again , I 'd rather take a bullet to the foot than be exposed to this piece of fuckwood ever again . If anyone I see says they liked it i will physically punch them in the face
Some of these viewer comments are just ridiculous . Not painful to watch with your significant other ? I was apologizing to my boyfriend the entire movie . It was so slow and awfully strange . Both Redgraves , Vanessa and Natasha were unfit for this , especially with Vanessa doing that ridiculous brash American accent . Claire Danes was the same wiggly-lipped awkward girl that she was in My So-Called Life . She has yet to push herself in any way . Girl , find a new way to pretend to cry ! Meryl Streep was one of the only redeeming part of this movie , she was on screen for five minutes , and I swear to God , she reached out of the movie screen and slapped me awake . Oh ! And Hugh Dancy , who gets better every time I see him . Glenn Close and Eileen Atkins were also great in their two and a half scenes . I mean , this was a well-shot movie , it was very pretty , the settings were interestingly dressed , providing relief for the intense boredom I was feeling . I do n't know , It 's just pretty pathetic when a movie that boasts a cast comprised of `` The greatest actresses of our time '' sucks so much . It sure had more than a few noticeable editing errors , and the main character ( Ann ) was a huge jerk . I was glad she died . But that 's because I felt bad for Lila , Ann 's friend -- mostly because these two ladies were better actors and made me feel a little empathy . Ugh . BAD job , Evening the film . You were n't entertaining and you were n't even thought-provoking . I sure hope the book was better , so it did n't waste even more of people 's time . 3/10
LL Cool J performed much better in this movie that I expected ! He did a fabulous job acting as a `` renegade '' cop within a `` renegade '' department . From the very beginning , he does a great job of building viewer empathy for his character and the predicament he 's in . He acts as a sort of `` gentle giant '' -- a person whose rough exterior can scare anybody , yet whose heart is clearly in the right place from the very start -- and he does an amazing job . He was quite clearly the best character in the movie . This was certainly a performance that will not win Morgan Freeman any awards . After starring in powerhouse films like the Shawshank Redemption this film was certainly a step down . His role in Edison simply did not allow him to show his true talents as an actor -- and in terms of the conglomeration of characters placed him sadly on a back burner . There are so many ways his character ( Moses Ashford ) could have taken a more pivotal role . That he did n't was disappointing and a true let-down . I was hoping to see more from him in this film . Timberlake ought to have stayed in the music industry . His portrayal of a young journalist was poorly acted and unpersuasive . This movie is a typical action movie that ( at least initially ) bears some resemblance to corrupt police affairs LA has experienced in the past . Being an action movie , it has its share of shoot-em-up scenes , blood , and guts . These scenes are typically unrealistic and painfully predictable . Watching the beginning of the movie there is very little suspense as to what will happen at the end -- think of what you would typically expect in a good-cops/bad-cops conflict -- and it bears little resemblance to a REAL police shoot-out . What irked me most was the way Timberlake 's character behaved during shoot-out scenes . He starts out having guns and not using them . Then when he finally gets around to using one he fires it as if he 's been firing a gun his whole life . Then he runs out of bullets and does n't have a gun -- and 30 seconds later , without moving or anything -- suddenly has 2 more fully loaded guns AND extra ammo ? ! Little plot errors like this really ruined the movie for me . If what you are looking for is a blatantly fictional plot in a fantasy world where everything turns out okay , then you 'll probably love this movie . Personally , it does n't matter to me what KIND of movie it is as long as it is realistic . Make me believe that the story is true . This story was so obviously fictional in so many aspects that I came away feeling unsatisfied .
I gave this two stars for the awesome DV shot clarity , which lends to the cold and dark sterility of its character . That was being generous , I know . This film fails on all accounts . I can not recommend this , for it is neither poetic , nor blunt . Neither dramatic , nor suspenseful . Neither controversial , nor ordinary . It is just a wretched piece of trash that no horror or exploit fan can recommend in good faith . Do not watch this , whoever you are . . .please , just stay away from this awful product . Thank you .
Hubert Selby Jr. gave us the book `` Requiem For A Dream '' and co-wrote the screenplay to Aronofsky 's movie of it . That movie succeeded on every level by delivering an intimate , and unbiased portrait of the horrors of the characters lives and the vices that destroyed them . `` Last Exit To Brooklyn '' still has the vice and the multiple characters living sad lives , but it hardly does them the same justice Aronofsky did . The film seems laughably anti-gay at times . Especially when in the film homosexuality equals death . One gay character gets stoned , is launched skyward by a speeding car , and lands dead on the pavement . Another is crucified and still more are simply beat up . Another exaggerated piece of shock value , that might actually have been compelling if it were done well , are scenes of the union workers literally doing battle with the strike-breakers . Who 'd have thought a drama about Brooklyners would feature action sequences and truck explosions ? The director , Uli Edel has a skill level like that of a TV director , but he is far below the cut for real movies . The film is clunky that ca n't even seem to settle on a genre . Lake is given a useless role that any mannequin could have filled and Baldwin only seems to know how to look stupid in his equally meager part . And then comes Jennifer Jason Leigh as our lead , a loathsome hooker named Tralala ( believe it or not , I 'm not joking ) . Her performance is nothing great and the fate of her character is dirty to say the least . Poor use of color and composition make it look cheaper than it is , and also takes the `` real '' edge off the more provocative bits . A failure .
bad acting , bad southern accents , inconsistent cinematography , horrible script ... I was looking forward to this film at a recent film festival and was so discouraged after seeing it . It contains quote/unquote name talent , but they do not deliver . Of course the basis for this is the uneven and uninteresting story that is told . do n't bother
You know , I went to see `` The Hills have eyes 2 '' wanting to like it . I really enjoyed the original , and the remake was fairly entertaining . They obviously had more money to throw around than Wes Craven did on special effects the second time around . Even though I still prefer the original film , the remake was done well , and it was kind of a guilty pleasure for me . Bloody , intense , and great special effects . In short , a great popcorn movie for any horror fan . Which brings us to `` The Hills have eyes 2 '' . Man , where do I start ? The plot , or lack of one , is paper thin . We are not exactly breaking new ground here.The military has decided to monitor the area , and all of these people turn up missing . So what do we do now ? Let 's send in the National Guard to investigate . In true Hollywood fashion we need to make them the dumbest , and worst soldiers ever seen . Gee , I 've never seen that premise before . To make a long story short , you have the mutants killing off the moron soldiers one at a time in graphic fashion . Once again the special effects by Nicotero are great , but the kills no matter how graphic become boring , and predictable . Honestly it seemed to me that this flick was done just to grab a quick buck . It was bloody , and graphic , but I found it predictable , boring , and not scary at all . For me it would have been nice if this film contained one original thought.Wes Craven and his son shared the writing duties , and he has been involved with many of my favorite horror films , but sadly this is n't one of them .
This movie was bad . This movie was horrible . The acting was bad . The setting was unrealistic . The story was absurd : A comet that appears once in eons is set to appear one night . Most of the world 's population decided to watch this comet . Then , the next morning everyone but a select few of people has been turned to dust from the comet 's radiation . People 's clothes are still intact , there are plants which are still alive , but the people were turned to dust . No bones , nothing . Thats ridiculous . How can radiation incinerate people but leave their clothes and other biological substances intact ? Even better , the comet mutated some people into zombie flesh eating monsters . Their makeup would not have even looked frightening to a newborn child . The Insane Clown Posse scare me more ... and they 're supposed to look stupid . Then there were the survivors . People who had been surrounded by steel when the comet passed were spared from zombie-dom and death . How can steel block a comet 's radiation that supposedly incinerates people in their tracks ? Equally insulting is the 60 's horror music playing in the background through parts of the movie , or the 80 's hair rock which serves no purpose in the film and makes you want to shoot your television . The stupidest part of the movie , however , are the characters it focuses on : two Valley Girls and Chakotay from Star Trek : Voyager . These three characters were totally unrealistic . Who would go looting the day after an apocalypse with flesh eating mutants running everywhere ? There were four 5 minute horror scenes in the entire movie , and most of them were dreams . In between these scenes is unsophisticated dialog which makes South Park seem intelligent . The silence in between the elementary dialog was painful . I could have made a better movie with four monkeys and a bag of Cheetos . Do n't see this movie , ever .
I 've just visited Russian forum of our TV-channel that had showed this film . Well ... 99 per cent of active Russian audience is disappointed . We wanted to see more true facts of our space achievements in this film . But authors had in mind something else ... : ( We are big and beautiful country with intelligent people living here . We are proud of all our space dreams , real achievements on the one hand in this field and in science on the other hand . So I 'd like to ask authors : Where is our LUNOHOD ? And where , the Hell our MIR station ? Ah ? I 'm quite sure , that LUNOHOD events took place much earlier Armstrong 's `` walk on Moon '' . And to comment numerous technical and science mistakes - I really have no time and enough space here ! Se our constructive critics in Russian forum on www.1tv.ru
This could have been the gay counterpart to Gone With The Wind given its epic lenght , but instead it satisfied itself by being a huge chain of empty episodes in which absolutely nothing occurs . The characters are uni-dimensional and have no other development in the story ( there 's actually no story either ) than looking for each other and kissing . It 's a shame that an interesting aesthetic proposition like having almost no dialog is completely wasted in a film than makes no effort in examining the psychology of its characters with some dignity , and achieving true emotional resonance . On top of that , it pretends to be an `` art '' film by using the worst naive clichés of the cinematic snobbery . But anyway , if someone can identify with its heavy banality , I guess that 's fine .
Words can not describe how utterly abysmal this movie is . It is a series of random , unfunny clips about everything from a stupid Batman spoof to a guy getting it on with an old dead lady ( REALLY disturbing ) . The only remotely amusing thing about the Underground Comedy Movie is watching Joey Buttafuoco , the best actor in this movie . Also , it is rated NC-17 , shunning away the only people that might tolerate it .
In the questionable comedy vein of Mel Brooks , `` Wholly Moses ! '' tries to take the Bible story of Moses and make fun of it , resulting in the unfunniest Biblical spoof ever filmed . There is no real plot here , just excuses to trot out stalwart comedy talent in underwritten roles . Dudley Moore and Laraine Newman are on a bus tour of the Holy Land , when they stumble across an ancient scroll in a cave . There they read the story of Herschel and Zerelda , also played by Moore and Newman . Herschel 's life parallels Moses ' . He was sent down the river to be found by the pharaoh 's family at the same time Moses was . Herschel 's birth father , the late James Coco , becomes Herschel 's slave after Herschel is rescued by idol makers and works as a sculptor . Eventually Herschel comes to work for the pharaoh as an astronomer , is banished , and ends up tending Moses ' flock of sheep . Herschel and Moses are brothers in law , marrying sisters , and Herschel thinks God has chosen him to free his people in Egypt . Of course , Moses was receiving the Divine Word , but Herschel misunderstood . I 'll pause here to laugh hysterically ... pause ... anyway , the rest of the film is a series of badly written scenes involving Moore and actors who are making `` special appearances . '' These scenes do not propel the plot forward , they bring what little story there is to a grinding halt . Jack Gilford plays a tailor . Dom DeLuise has maybe three lines when he meets Herschel in the desert . John Houseman is an archangel , just giving the same line readings he gave in `` The Paper Chase . '' David L. Lander is a fake blind man `` healed '' by Herschel . Andrea Martin is one of Zerelda 's sisters . I was not sure who Madeline Kahn was supposed to be , she gives a ride to Herschel , and has about a minute and a half of screen time . John Ritter plays a very unfunny devil . Richard Pryor has one scene as the pharaoh , but it was obviously shot at a different time than Moore 's scene because the two do not appear onscreen together ! In the end , Zerelda turns into a pillar of salt after looking back on New Sodom 's destruction , ha ha . Herschel writes the Ten Commandments , and gives them to Moses , who is basking in all the glory . In the final scenes , the screenwriter decide to try and salvage this shallow film by having Herschel bait God into an argument . God comes off as an all powerful bully who was leading Herschel around for his own amusement , speaking through him only to give him the Ten Commandments . We even have Zerelda quip `` God works in mysterious ways , '' thereby excusing everyone 's very unChristian behavior during the film . This film is not funny . There is nary a laugh to be found anywhere . At least Monty Python made fun of many established religious mainstays in `` Life of Brian '' in addition to their questionable take on Jesus ' life , but here the humor consists of poo poo jokes and characters constantly bumping their heads . This makes Mel Brooks look like Merchant/Ivory . Churchgoers will be offended , not by the film 's attitude toward religion , but by the smugness the movie exhibits , impressed with their own hoitytoityness ( I know , not a word ) on a subject they obviously know nothing about . `` Wholly Moses ! '' is wholly bad , and an embarassment to all involved . I suggest you read the Book instead . This is rated ( PG ) for some physical violence , profanity , sexual references , and adult situations .
0.5/10 . This movie has absolutely nothing good about it . The acting is among the worst I have ever seen , what is really amazing is that EVERYONE is awful , not just a few here and there , everyone . The direction is a joke , the low budget is hopelessly evident , the score is awful , I would n't say the movie was edited , brutally chopped would be a more appropriate phrase . It combines serial killings , voodoo and tarot cards . Dumb . Dumb . Dumb . It is not scary at all , the special effects are hopelessly lame . laughably bad throughout . The writing was appallingly bad . The cinematography is real cheap looking , and very grainy sometimes , and the camera-work is dreadful . Again , what really does the movie in is how badly all the actors are . Cheesy .
Okay this is gona be short and sweet review ... Something the movie should have taken a practice ina nd made its life shorter and sweeter than it was . This movie is $ ^ @ % . There 's a good reason there was a petition with over 40,000 + signatures ALL demanding Uwe Boll stop making movies from franchises people liked . Blood Rayne being a biggie there . The jokes are good ... if you 've never heard them a THOUSAND times before . THe acting is descent but u can really only blame the script for that . I even a few moments wonder if they 're even using a script . The movie has little to NOTHING to do with the original games . HELLO if you 've played the games u know the main character has no real motivation outside homicidal urges like mass murder because he stubbed his toe or simular . There 's way too much story for such a stupid movie . like I said . I WOULD N'T even steal this movie . ANd for the person who says this is ' Funniest movie of 2007 ' ... ... ... .need to take a look around , the news is better than this .
The Eternal Jew ( Der Ewige Jude ) does not have what we today would call the markings of a scholarly document : rather than naming experts or sources to support what it says , it simply says , without opposition , what it wants us to believe ( one will concede that American newsreels of that period were also much less regulated than would seem ethical to a modern audience , often inserting dramatized scenes and passing them off as actual news footage ) . Add to this directed propaganda the fact that filmmaker Hippler was `` preaching to the converted , '' not so much asking gentile Europeans to hate the Jews as validating the feelings so many of them must have held already , in order to have allowed the holocaust that followed . The weakest link in the film 's logic shows in its `` rat '' analogy , wherein it goes on to explain the behavior of rats , and then adds something to the effect of `` Well , Jewish people are like that too . '' Similarly it characterizes Jewish people as ugly by showing ugly Jewish people in comparison to attractive gentiles ; the accompanying leap of faith is that ugly is bad . The film appears to contradict itself a few times , for example by attacking Western painters who portrayed Old Testament characters as light-skinned Europeans ; thereby the text admits that so-called `` Hebrew '' ethnicity is in fact an ingrained aspect of Christian culture . It also shows ghetto Jews willingly living in roach-infested filth , despite the supposed treasure they 've hoarded , and then flip-flops by saying that these same undesirables live in wealth and luxury as soon as they leave the ghetto . Incidentally , who would n't ? The use of scenes from a well-known American film , House of Rothschild , shows an equally blurry deployment of logic . First the film is denounced as having been made by Jews ; then it is apparently used by Hippler to verify the deceptiveness of Jews ( the aforementioned pretense of poverty by ghetto Jews , shown as a means of avoiding taxation , although the Rothschild character 's `` spin '' is that Jews are taxed excessively ) ; finally the Rothschild film is once again execrated for implying that the famed banking family invented the checking account . This apparent indecisiveness in whether the American footage is shown positively or negatively might become clearer with repeated viewings , but at first sight it makes for some murky moviewatching . For all of Eternal Jew 's imperfections , I was at first surprised that the IMDb viewer rating for this film is as high as it is , just shy of a `` 5 '' to date . I 'd say the reason is that EJ 's documentary value has exceeded its original purpose , offering us , unintentionally , a look into the lives of European Jews as they would not be seen a few years hence . Needless to say the film 's very badness also provides an historical insight into bad , or simply evil , filmmaking as a propagandist 's tool . About this time I should expect director Hippler to flip-flop once again , springing forward to say `` That 's what I meant to do all along ! '' The scenes depicting animal slaughter are particularly gruesome , and show same as decidedly inhumane , contrary to the intent of Kosher law to prevent animal suffering . I would like for someone who has seen the film , and has some knowledge of these procedures , to comment on whether the portrayal is accurate .
I 'll keep this fast and sweet . Five girls on their way home from a football game decide to take a 'short cut ' that leads them down a deserted forest-ridden road . Of course nothing but good things happen to them , and they safely arrive at their destination . Alright , they do n't . Soon they 're hunted down by a deranged chick who has some severe mental issues , and what ensues is 90 minutes of sheer boredom . I hope to never see any of these actors in any movie ever again . Their screaming , screeching voices gave me a headache , and the script was so poorly written that it included a lot of repeat phrases and nonsensical hysterical screaming . All in all , one of the worst cheap horror flicks I 've ever seen ... and I 've seen a lot .
If you are under the age of 6 or 7 , then you 're going to really enjoy this movie . My youngest daughter is glued to the TV when she watches it . As an adult , I ca n't stand it ! ! I 'm all up for sequels ... .when they have a decent storyline . But this is nowhere near up to standard . Please forgive me for slating what is after all a kid 's film , but when you have to sit through it nearly every day when your kids who love it so much , you 'll understand why . My daughter would watch this film over and over again on the same day if we let her . I 've given this film 4 out of 10 purely for the fact that it keeps my youngest entertained .
Obviously made to show famous 1950s stripper Misty Ayers `` acting '' talents . Too bad she ca n't act . Boring little tale about sweet , innocent Sally Down ( Ayers ) being drugged and forced into white slavery ( prostitution ) . Then she meets likable Tommy Cole who instantly falls in love with her . He wants to help her escape but can he ? You really wo n't care . There 's no real skin here -- Ayers just strips down SLOWLY to her underwear ( twice ) . The rest is just a boring little tale chockful of bad acting , atrocious `` comedy '' ( never thought prostitution was funny but what do I know ? ) and terrible post-dubbed dialogue . I admit there was a twist at the end I did n't see coming but that 's not enough to sit through this . Also Ayers ' attempts at acting are hysterical ! A real bomb . Avoid .
I 'd completely forgotten about this film until now . This was the most blatant and worst attempt to demonise a hobby that I have ever seen . It 's message seemed to be : `` Do n't teenagers use their imagination ; they might take games seriously , go mad and hurt people . '' I can only guess that the unimaginative writers of this piece thought that D & D style games are form of evil ritual or arcane worship .
Well , the big money machine has done it again ! Disney very shrewdly takes advantage of morons like myself who feel we must own every video ( good or bad ) stamped with the Disney moniker . Why is it that I continue to look forward to these `` sequels '' which make Don Bluth on a bad day look like Leonardo DaVinci ? Cinderella 2 consists of three storylines ( already a poor choice ! ) Does n't one of the most endearing Disney creations at least deserve a linear story ? Of these three , only the last comes anywhere near the quality of animation and storytelling that I would expect . The music is atrocious and modern ( meaning in 2 years it will already be dated ) and adds nothing to the story . Why does everything have to be updated ? You know , the original cartoon is still popular because of its timelessness , so why not be respectful and true to the original with songs that reflect the same style ? Gee , I ca n't wait for a sequel to Sleeping Beauty . Instead of music based on the themes of Tchaikovsky , we 'll get music inspired by Britney Spears ! ! ! So Disney , if you 're listening , remember we 're not all indiscriminate children out here . How about throwing a bone or two to the fans who 've been around long enough to know the difference between craft and crap ?
LAGE RAHO MUNNABHAI is really a disappointing movie . I have seen the first part of MUNNABHAI and it was really good but this one really make u bore n disappoint u ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... This movie really waste yours time and money . I went with my friend to this movie on the first day of its release and v both get bore in cinema-hall ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Role of CIRCUIT was very small n useless n this movie . I think SANJAY-DUTT cut down the role of ARSHAD VARSHI ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Character of the movie is also not well define like the previous one .this movie show u the result of OVER-CONFIDENCE ... ... ... The ideas of MAHATMA is also not define and confusing ... ... ... ... ... ... A REALLY VERY BIG DISAPPOINTMENT
Another weak third-season entry , 'Is There In Truth No Beauty ? ' nonetheless has at least one key plot element that is very different and as Spock would say , fascinating . The main character is an alien who must be carried around in a black box because his appearance is so horrendous that it drives humans insane . It 's too bad the episode can not live up to this incredible premise . Obviously , I think , it was a mistake to ever 'show ' the alien , as its actual visage in no way even approximates such a daunting build-up ; all we get is the standard Star Trek psychedelic light display used for any number of things in different episodes , usually when the ship is passing through a magnetic storm or something similar . In any event , Kollos ' appearance can at least be tolerated by Mr. Spock , and then only if Spock is wearing a special visor . ( For the longest time , I thought the alien 's name was 'Carlos , ' which I found humorous , but I digress . ) Spock is required to mind-meld with Kollos at one point so that the alien can pilot the Enterprise back to safety . This is accomplished , but when Spock/Kollos go back to end the mind-meld , by golly , Spock forgets his visor . Uh oh . He goes crazy but eventually recovers with the help of Kollos ' assistant , a blind woman with psychic powers . This might have been a really bizarre , excellent episode but it is poorly directed and comes across as yet one more badly executed show of the series ' last season .
I didnt think it was possible , but i have found film worse than 'Body Melt ' . This film is really really bad ! And what makes it worse is that its another Australian film ... Shot on what looks like VHS , and with a terrible 80 's rock soundtrack , it just keep getting worse and worse , which is hard to believe seeing how bad the beginning is ( skinned male hanging up-side-down in a white tomato sauce sprayed room anyone ? ) . And why do their accents keep changing ? From bad New York drawl , to prissy english , then pure Aussie ! And it happens to the whole cast ! This film also claims to have won some film festival on the cover ( i believe it was the Utah Film Festival ) . This has to be a lie because no-one in their right mind would nominate this for anything ( perhaps the Golden Rasberries but i thinks its too bad for that aswell ) . Come on guys ! This film has to be number 1 on the bottom 100 ! ! ! It has to be ten times a bad as those films already on there . Well done to the `` film '' makers of this trash , for proving there is a reason not to see films ... .. 0/10
I normally have no problem walking away from a bad movie , however this was an unique case . This movie was so bad that I actually sat through the whole thing almost praying it would have one minute of good movie time to justify the hour and a half that was wasted . Needless to say I was brutally disappointed . Set at a beach house where a group of college friends are celebrating vacation , this movie suffers from numerous problems making it not worth seeing . First , there are gaping plot holes . Second , very few of the C-list ( i do n't even dare call them B ) actors can act worth a damn , so any scenes that have potential fail miserably . Third , the rate of the film is very choppy and awkward to watch most of the time making suspense building very difficult , leading to very few surprises for the audience . Fourth and most importantly , the ending is completely anti-climatic partially because of how it ends ( setting/who the killer turns out to be ) and partially because the dialog is just atrocious . To the films credit , it is the only movie that I will ever say is the worst movie I have ever scene , and i 've seen a lot . So , just like a bad joke you would have been all the happier never hearing , the next time someone asks you if you want to know a secret you will be yelling no , you really do n't as you run in the opposite direction .
Motocrossed was fun , but it was n't that great . I guess I just did n't understand a lot of the Motocross racing `` lingo '' ( and there was A LOT of that in the film ) ! The plot was n't what I expected from the Disney Channel previews , so that could account for some of my disappointment .
I like a lot of the actors/actresses involved in this project so being insulted by the movie felt even worse than if they used a unknowns .The main problem was this movie was clearly just a concept created to appeal to baby boomers .In 20 or 30 years Nbc will probably do a movie just like this about the early 90 's . I can see it now a black family where the kids are involved with the la riot 's and the white family has the kids rebel and listen to grunge rock music .The soundtrack will feature bands like Nirvana , N.W.A , Public Enemy , Soundgarden etc .The movie like this will be just as cheesy as The 60 's and I gurantee you NBC will do it .See the biggest problem with period pieces when done buy networks is that when you are living in a certain time period you are n't thinking i am living in the 60 's or whatever decade is trendy retro at the time .Next time someone does something like this they should put more weight into there project
Following a car accident , a mad scientist ( Jason Evers ) keeps the head of his fiancee ( Virgina Leith ) alive . He then goes on the prowl looking for the perfect body to make her whole again . Pretty lame all the way around , nothing redeeming here . Also in the cast are : Leslie Daniels , Bonnie Sharie and Bruce Brighton . Someone should have helped put this one out of its misery . Let it die .
`` I thought I 'd be locked away in a padded cell and they 'd throw away the key '' ( Thus is a paraphrased snatch of dialogue from `` State of Mind '' . One wonders in what tangled forest Paula Milne and her co-writer found the magic mushrooms they must have eaten , to create this feeble `` whodunnit '' and bring such rubbish to our screens . A padded cell should indeed be left available . Niamh Cusack did her best , ( as did the other actors ) but surely her talent deserves a better vehicle than this . The height of absurdity has been reached , and this particular `` State of Mind '' is best buried and forgotten , and certainly not just `` placed in a box and locked away in a drawer '' .
Tony Scott directs a thriller sports flick that should attract even the non-sports fan . And some say baseball is a dead sport ... boring ... too damn slow . Well perk up ! On the outside he appears to be a disgruntled salesman ( Robert De Niro ) while on the inside he is a psychotic San Francisco Giants fan . Along comes a new slugger ( Wesley Snipes ) and designated savior from the doldrums . Our salesman harbors a murderous obsession when the hard hitting all star falls into the worst slump in his career and the Giants are feared to crumble along with him . De Niro is terror personified . Snipes seems very natural as the ballplayer . Other notables in the cast are : the still attractive Ellen Barkin , John Leguizamo , Benicio Del Toro and Patti D'Arbanville . You are a free agent ... so enjoy . Violence and very strong language is to be expected and you get your moneys worth .
Yes , CHUNKY , this is the nick-name that Donna Reeds ' romantic lead played by Tom Drake tags her with ! So lets get this clear right away . From her first ingénue role in THE GET-AWAY ( 1941 ) too her last , DALLAS ( 1984-1985 ) Ms. Reed could NEVER be described as CHUNKY . Not this attractive and slim actress . Whose roles at M.G.M . seldom lived up to her talents . Ms. Reed is supported by a cast of competent character actors , who unfortunately must flounder through this alleged 'screw-ball ' comedy . Clearly M.G.M . was out of their depth making this type of film . A type better produced over at COLUMBIA , PARAMOUNT , RKO and even UNIVERSAL . Neither the 'touch ' of Ernst Lubitsch nor the wit of Preston Sturges could save this film . A rather conventional romantic comedy that had all the markings of a pre-war ( WWII ) effort . If Irving Thalberg had still been alive the screen-play would have either gone through a significant rewrite or never seen the light of day . It did fit into Louis B. Mayer 's 'safe-zone ' of none challenging family entertainment . A form that could not stand up to the post-war challenges of the 'DeHavilland Decision ' , loss of their theater chains , television and would contribute to M.G.M.s decline . Fortunetly for Donna Reed her best days are ahead of her culminating in FROM HERE TO ETERNITY ( 1953 ) and her Oscar win as Best Supporting Actress .
Melissa 's sixteenth birthday is right around the corner and she 's just discovering her sexuality with boys . But it turns out that all the guys that she spends time with all wind up murdered in this generic '80 's slasher film . It 's up to the local town sheriff Dan Burke ( Bo Hopkins , The Wild Bunch ) and his annoying mystery-loving goody two-shoes daughter , Marci ( Dana Kimmell , Friday the 13th part 3 ) , to get to the bottom of these killings . This film focuses more on the mystery and melodrama aspects of the movie and less on the killings themselves and thus is able to differentiate itself from a lot of it 's '80 's Slasher brethren . It does n't hurt that Alesia has a great body ( I feel the need to stress the obvious with stating that the actress is over 18 and thus convey that i 'm not overly perverted ) . On the downside , the movie is hampered with a few plot points that are underdeveloped and unnecessary , a grating theme some that is used a bit too often , and an ending that is a tad anti-climatic . But the good outweigh the bad ( barely ) . Give this a rent , but I would n't buy it . Eye Candy : Aleisa Shirley shows her tits , bush and ass My Grade : C Code Red DVD Extras : An intro by star Aleisa Shirley and Director of Intruder , Scott Spiegel ; Both Director 's cut & theatrical version of the film ; Audio conversation with star Shirley and Director Jim Sotos ; interview with Shirley , Sotos & Bo Hopkins ; still gallery ; theatrical trailer for this film ; and trailers for Nightmare , Stunt Rock , Rituals , & Balalaika Conspiracy
Generally I do n't like films directed by Sydney Pollack ( `` The Firm '' being somewhat of an exception ) and I 've never been a Robert Redford fan either . Still , I thought `` Three Days of the Condor '' must be good because of the number of praising comments it has received . Although the widescreen cinematography is quite pleasing for the eye and Max von Sydow does a nice job as the sinister professional killer , I found the whole affair tremendously disappointing . The film undeniably radiates paranoid atmosphere , but everything is ruined by the muddled plot which does n't seem to make any sense . The film also contains one of the most unsatisfying endings I have ever seen which really leaves the viewer hanging in the air . And what can one say about that absurd romance between Redford and Dunaway ? I 'd much rather watch any of Hitchcock 's films five times in succession than to sit through this piece of waste once more .
STAR RATING : ***** Saturday Night **** Friday Night *** Friday Morning ** Sunday Night * Monday Morning The American military has just launched a major new stealth fighter plane that can evade detection unlike any other . A renegade pilot ( Steve Touissant ) steals it and plots to hold the US government to ransom with it . So they are forced to send in their best man John Sands ( Seagal , who else ? ) to stop him , in exchange for his freedom from a detention centre where his mind was to be wiped of all the incriminating information he 's learned over the years . I skipped Attack Force because I could tell from the cover and all the post production tampering that had occurred that it would be crap and when all the negative reviews and low user rating came pouring in it just confirmed what I thought . But I decided to give FOF a go because Shadow Man ( by the same director ) was n't bad and , what the hell , Seagal was my favourite action star once and maybe , just maybe , he could make a great film again . Oh what a fool I was . Dubbing , horrendous stock footage of aerial stealth fighter jets , awful camera work , cheap production values , risible , unconvincing fight scenes that have become Seagal 's trademark and a boring , sleep inducing plot that does n't go anywhere . Thankfully his next film , Once Upon a Time in the Hood ( which I 'll be skipping ) , apparently marks the end of his contract with Sony , meaning no more of these awful European lensed action films and his next film Prince of Pistols might mark a return to theatres . Hell , he 's done it before and Stallone will have managed to do it before him ( Rocky Balboa . ) This is n't a Flight of Fury . It is n't even a flight of fun . It 's a flight that fails to even take off the ground . *
Any movie that has nude scenes of Karen Allen and I 'm still so bored I walk out , that is a stinker ! Karen gets stuck in Paris , and befriends a sissily-handsome French man with whom she is having sex soon . Of course he 's married , ( `` But , cheri , why should that be a problem ? '' ) What could be an interesting clash of cultures is ( believe it or not ) just dull . I walked out . Maybe the movie got a lot better after I left ; but it would have had to have gotten a LOT better to make up for a rotten beginning . My advice , if you find yourself in this , run , do not walk , for the exit . Save your time and your energy . Most assuredly save your money . It 's a shame the production company did n't save its money .
I can not believe that the Indian film industry still puts out such third-rate dross as Waqt . For starters , the storyline is totally implausible – spoilt son gets thrown out of family home so as to teach him some self-sufficiency . So what does he do ? He promptly goes on to win some national talent contest by doing some star jumps in front of a panel of judges ( I honestly am not joking here ) . In the meantime , his dad is dying of lung cancer , but keeps it a secret from the son , but he survives long enough to see his son become famous , to see his new grandson and also make a new toy giraffe with his own hands . The acting is cringe worthy in its hamminess – no effort was made to try and act in any convincing manner by any of the main players in this film . As usual for Indian films , the family lived in a huge mansion and seemed relatively untouched by the concerns of the real world . To be honest , the main losers when such dire films are made are the intelligent viewers who made the mistake of seeing such a film . The actors , such as Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar , will still be revered as Gods by those people who have nothing but blind faith in Bollywood .
If there was a ZERO rating , I would give it to this movie . Today was the second time I tried to watch it and I still could n't make it through from beginning to end . I ca n't believe the multiple stars given by others & can only assume they either know the actors or are a publicist in disguise ! The acting is atrocious all around , the script is blah , the kid playing Nichole shows zero emotion even when she 's being threatened . The `` southern '' accent from the actress playing Amber 's mom is laughable - I 'm from Georgia and have friends from Texas - believe me NOBODY talks like that ! None of her emotions seemed real in any scene . The subject matter is very serious and deserves much better treatment .
This Hitchcock movie bears little similarity to his later suspense films and seems much more like a very old fashioned morality tale . A young couple receives an inheritance that they believe will make them happy . They spend the money traveling about the world and living a very hedonistic existence . However , after a while the excitement begins to wane and the couple become dissipated and pointless in their existence . However , out of no where , when they are on a luxury cruise , the ship sinks and they lose everything -- and end up much happier in the end because they now appreciate life ! What an odd , silly and preachy film ! Personally , I 'd like to inherit all that money and find out if it makes me miserable ! The production values are relatively poor compared to later productions -- a rough film with poor sound quality and rather amateurish acting .
SPOILERS HEREIN My High School did all they could to try and motivate us for exams . But the most memorable method they used to get us into the right state of mind was a guest speaker , who was none other than Australian Kickboxing 's favorite son , Stan `` The Man '' Longinidis . The first mistake they made was giving this guy a microphone , because he was screaming half the time despite us sitting no more than 3 or 4 feet away from him . Now , his speech was full of the usual `` if you fail to prepare , then prepare to fail '' stuff , but there were various instances where I got really worked up . The guy stood there in front of us preaching how throughout his life he did everything for himself and no-one else . He was offered many deals in the past to give up kick-boxing , but he never took his eye off the prize of becoming Australia 's greatest kick-boxer . He said that he was n't a sell-out , he was happy and a retiree , he was n't ever involved in any other activity other than Kickboxing then he plugged his film . Yes , you heard right , he PLUGGED his new FILM . As he talked about it , he got a woman to come in and hold up a poster advertising it , and then he showed this shitty 4 minute clip of this vile film called `` Trojan Warrior '' . ( This all being before he was defeated by Gurkan Ozkan in his final career fight ( for now ) ) Stan plays Ajax , a kick-boxing ex-special forces agent that is pulled into the seedy underworld of Melbourne . Ajax 's cousin , Theo ( Arthur Angel ) recently sold out ( well , at least Stan did n't stray too far away from EVERYTHING ) to the feds , and as a result is on the run from all walks of organized crime . Ajax and Theo get into all sorts of ridiculous situations , from fighting in a Kebab shop to posing as playboys at a bondage party . It 's all pretty ridiculous , but if Silverstein was actually aiming to make a credible film here , this man should never be handed a camera again . I 'll admit , I was actually pumped to see this . I love action films , even if they 're corny , and especially if it 's set in my own backyard . But what I was introduced to was a film with acting that was appalling from the word `` go '' , and continued to do so after the words `` for the love of God please make it stop ! `` , subplots were introduced and not even touched on again after they were out in the open , characters were just thrown in for absolutely NO reason whatsoever , and the most over-choreographed fight scenes that did n't even remotely reflect Stan 's actual talent in Kickboxing . The cast consisted of useless cameo appearances by just about anyone REMOTELY famous ( Dermot Brereton , Mark `` Chopper '' Read and Greg Matthews ) . The whole time you 're sitting there and playing the guessing game of just who is standing there in the background . Too bad the movie relies heavily on split-second appearances by former celebrities . Remember those plot-holes I told you about ? Ajax once upon a time was apparently locked up , wrongly accused for murdering his wife . Now , we hear that Ajax was in special forces via ONE single sentence in the WHOLE film , and then leave it for buggery . This is followed by another SINGLE sentence which persuades Ajax to help the same people who wrongly locked him up . Then , get this , at the end , it is revealed to Ajax that his wife is n't actually dead , but was sold into prostitution . Do we see her ? No . Does Ajax go off to find her as soon as he hears this ? No . Now THAT 's a marriage ! Amidst all this irritatingly puerile crap , some website described this film as `` a cross between Jackie Chan & Guy Ritchie `` . Has this man ever sat down and watched a Jackie Chan film ? ! Chan shows more dexterity taking a dump than Stan did doing , well , ANYTHING ! And Guy Ritchie is the crime-film Messiah , and you 're comparing him to Salik Silverstein ! ? This film is more like a mix between `` Pizza '' and `` Enter The Ninja '' . Now , where do you thing the whole `` Trojan Warrior '' title comes from ? Ajax 's fierce fighting skills like that of an Ancient Greek Warrior ? No . The gangsters ' unification to find Theo , like that of the Trojan Empire ? No . It 's because wait for it Theo carries a condom around with him . Yes , that right , because THEO is ALWAYS PREPARED with a Trojan BRAND RUBBER in his pocket , he is a Trojan WARRIOR ! I had the displeasure of seeing `` Trojan Warrior '' on DVD , as well as it 's `` special '' features : • Video clip of `` Chop Chop '' , a rap song by Mark `` Chopper '' Read : Chopper did this for the sole purpose of proving that ANYONE can rap . The funny thing was Chopper just rapped for 30 seconds and then threw it over to these two albino teens from Doncaster , using such words as `` dis '' and `` dope '' etc in their Australian accents . Face it people , rap was developed in the States , LEAVE IT THERE ! The clip looked like something a Channel 31 cameraman on ecstasy put together . • Bloopers : There was no real difference between these and the actual film . • Stan `` The Man '' Longinidis Kickboxing Featurette : This was n't too bad , considering it was just 6 or 7 different fights shown from different angles ( I think I saw Dennis Alexio fall over about 15 times in that 3 minute montage ) . I do n't want to say this film contributes to the reason this country is going to hell when it comes to film , but ... oh wait , I just did . My advice to anyone reading this is for you to go out and buy 4 or 5 copies of `` Trojan Warrior '' , tape them together , and use it for a paperweight , because this movie is just that damn bad .
I do n't know where to begin , so I 'll begin with a snippet from the back of the cover of this movie . `` Alive combines the tension of Vincenzo Natali 's Cube with Kitamura 's own Versus . '' I have not seen Versus , so I ca n't comment on that , but I think Cube was an excellent movie which I recommend to everyone . However , in this case someone has clearly confused `` tension '' with `` boredom '' . I 'll just go ahead and spoil the entire plot , because besides being one holy Swiss cheese of a plot , it 's also moldy cheese , and the movie is not worth spending any time on even if you do n't know the plot beforehand , so it does n't matter . If I have misunderstood the plot , do n't hit me - it 's probably because I had to struggle to keep my eyelids open . So the American military in Nevada once lost a UFO i the Nambi desert . This apparently makes sense because they 're both deserts so surely they 're practically the same place . Different continents or not . A monkey broke into the UFO and acquired an alien something which was passed on to a Japanese researcher who had to eat the monkey to survive in the desert . What ever . The alien thing is now passed on to anyone who 's `` bloodthirsty '' enough to kill the current host . The Japanese military wants to use it for military stuff , so they decide to make it pass from the current host ( the researcher 's daughter ) to some other dude . But instead of just picking someone out of the military , which is full of people who are bloodthirsty AND already on the military 's side , they decide that it 's probably a good idea to pick some criminal out of death row instead . Oh , and the reason they pick this particular criminal from death row is because he was the first person in history to not die from the non-lethal electric shock which is the standard execution method , because everyone dies from the placebo effect when they get electrocuted . I do n't know if they do this so they can giggle in the staff room at how everyone dies even though it 's not deadly , or if they just want to cut down the electricity bill . Then the movie turns into what The Matrix would have been if it had been really lame , and superfluous fighting bores us to tears for what feels like an hour . And oh wait , now they remember that they already had a dude who was infected with the alien thing , so the entire movie up to this point was actually a totally waste of time and also human lives . Then everyone dies . The end . The only one moment in the movie where I did n't want to go away and sleep or eat a sandwich instead , was when a dude was pinned to a wall by a pipe through his chest , and he 's hanging around up there and another dude walks by . The dude hanging on the wall says `` I 'm in pain , shoot me '' . And the living dude looks at him , and it 's not like he 's a mean dude or anything , so he really looks sorrowful and does n't want the guy on the wall to suffer . So he shoots him . ( Rhetorical pause . ) In the stomach . `` Gee THANKS A FREAKIN ' HEAP . ''
Wow , I hated this movie . The subject matter should have resulted in a really fine film , and the lead actor was definitely sensitive and talented enough to handle the topic , but the script - if there even *was* a script - is a mess . This is less a movie than a random slide show that goes nowhere . I 'd say it goes nowhere fast , except that it 's actually the longest 81 minutes you 'll ever sit through . As I 've mentioned , the lead actor is good . So is Faruza Baulk ( SP ? ) , as his sometimes-harsh-but-ultimately-loving-and-accepting mother . The film makers have a lot to answer for here , because this is a mess . A real shame , because I really wanted to like this movie , but it 's basically out-takes from a movie that never got made . Skip this one - it was n't even worth the $ 6 I shelled out for pay-per-view .
I 'll admit that I liked the first one , and was really looking forward to the sequel . I was let down . Sure the special effects were technically amazing -- but they were n't believable looking . It looked more like a cartoon . Alright , I admit to liking 80 % of the chase scene -- but the fight with all the Mr Smiths ? It was too obviously animated . I can accept all of that . What I ca n't accept is that the non-action parts were crap . Every time Morpheus opened his mouth , I knew I was in for a speech that went on forever and signified nothing . I was also disappointed with the little plot that did exist . What this movie did was tell us that there was no truth in the first movie ( except about the existence of the matrix ) . This movie was a little like seeing the episode of DALLAS where you find out that the entire previous season was a dream . Ugh ! I want my $ 7.00 back !
I cant believe blockbuster carries this movie . It was SO BAD . I was totally fooled by the box art . DO N'T BE FOOLED ! ! Its not worth your time I promise you . I do n't know if the positive reviews for this flick were a joke or what . I am so disappointed . : ( The description on the back of the box does n't even match ! The girl that has the voodoo done on her is a stripper . The synopsis on the back says she is only 17 . Did the people writing the description for the film even bother to watch it ! ? Those positive reviews had to be a joke they just had to be . If anyone actually liked this flick then I 've lost all faith in humanity . And do n't even get me started on the story compared to the title . Or the fact that the entire movie was done all in 2 locations . Or that the cops did n't even have close to real uniforms . Why would i even say that ? ? Who cares about the cops uniforms ! ? Compared to the rest of the movie the uniforms were spot on . This movie is an insult to the zombie genre and all of its fans .
There are some Stallone movies I like , but this movie did n't meet my low expectations . I found this movie hard to believe . For example , a bunch of terrorists who crash land in the wilderness are prepared to survive for at least two days . Also , in all this wilderness Stallone and company keep running across bridges and ladders that provide convenient short-cuts or plot devices . Also , the Treasury cops do n't seem to coordinate anything with the local rescue people . Also , bad guys who could n't hit the side of a barn with really high-tech looking automatic weapons . I liked John Lithgow 's villain initially , but the character is such a complete psychopath that he does n't care at all about any of his own bad guys , or all of them getting killed . Eventually I just could n't believe the character anymore . Not worth the price of a rental , not even worth taking the time to watch .
I gave this movie a very fair chance , and it betrayed me . This is very little more than a black and white excuse to bore the hell out of the audience even as the egotist Bogdanavich ( who did way better with TARGETS ) gets `` great performances '' out of a ton of hams in their debuts . Lots of teenage sex clichés come out of this movie , such as Doing the Teacher 's Wife , Impotence , Doing the Ugly Prostitute ( which is very awkwardly shot and grinds things to a complete halt , not that things were really going anywhere anyway ) and skinny dipping . I suppose this movie is supposed to be funny because of all the sex nonsense , to me , it was just annoying . I was seriously much more entertained by cleaning my finger nails than watching this mess .
You could say that the actors will make a movie , but this clearly proves that statement wrong . Most of the characters in this film lack anything to hold on to . They play the part of cardboard cut outs being moved about in predictable and uninteresting ways . The story is very simple . It could be summed up in a few words , but I 'll hold back in case anyone reading does want to see this film . I had to fast forward the parts where Jack showed us how to be an obnoxious eater . I 'd have to say that 70 % of this film revolved around cooking , eating , or getting ready to eat . Quite frankly , I 'd rather not spend my time watching Jack chew noisily with an open mouth . Personally , I could have done without the footwear references and jokes that pepper the first half of the film too . Outside of my own personal dementia , the film really lacked anything worth it 's time . There were countless scenes and camera shots that felt like it was dragging . When something happens , the reactions of the characters are vague and dry . Best not to look this one up .
The comedic might of Pryor and Gleason could n't save this dog from the tissue-thin plot , weak script , dismal acting , and laughable continuity in editing this mess together . It has a very few memorable moments , but the well dries up quickly . As a kid I remember this as a Luke-warm vehicle for the two actor-comedians , but there was always something strange about the flow and feeling of what was being conveyed in each scene and how this ties to the plot overall . Watching it again after many years , it screams schlock-a-mania . I 'm not so concerned with the racial controversy , as I would n't mind seeing a movie take that issue on with a little levity . The most obvious fault to me is that the scenes are laid out like a jumbled , non-related series of 2 minute situation comedy bits ( any not very good ones at that ) , that were stapled together by the editor after an all-nighter at the local watering hole . Characters change feelings and motivations on a dime , without rhyme nor reason , between scenes and within scenes , making this feel as though no one had any idea of what to get out of the screenplay . Not that it was any gem to start with . I feel bad for the two actors whose legacy is marred by this disaster that should never have been made . Maybe my sense of humor has become too refined ...
( Very light spoilers , maybe . ) Normally a fan of Diane Keaton , I tried to watch this tonight . I had to switch it off before the second hour because I found myself with absolutely no sympathy for daughter or mother . Both came across as self-absorbed with little regard for others , with the daughter also adding in rude , disrespectful and reckless to the mix . When the daughter died , the only thing I thought was , `` At least we wo n't have to watch her anymore . '' Keaton did a good job of moving into her stunned state and into the grieving , but it was too far gone for me by then . I simply was n't enjoying it , so I stopped watching . If you want me to care for the protagonist , you need to get me caring about the characters much sooner -- if it 's nearly an hour in and I do n't care , it 's too late . The supporting cast was sincere and well played -- I felt for *them ! * -- and the gay best friend was wonderful , but even combined , that was n't enough to carry the film for me .
I think Jason Lee has huge potential , but this was the WRONG vehicle in which to attempt to break out as a star . The plot is awful , the comedy is awful . I laughed twice , I think for relief , because in retrospect , they were fairly lame jokes . I found myself scared for the future of Fletch , and had to console myself that it was the film that was flawed , not Lee . Julia Stiles and Selma Blair are hot , but I recommend looking at the still photos on this website to figure that out , instead of this film . Save your time . 1 star .
Yeah , Madsen 's character - whilst talking to the woman from the TV station - is right : the LAPD IS a corrupt , violent and racist police . And this movie changes nothing about it . Okay , here are the good cops , the moral cops , even a black one , whow , a Christian , a martyr . But this is a fairy tale , admit it . Reality is not like that . And most important for the action fans : The shoot out is boring . It 's just shooting and shooting and shooting . Nothing more . Play Counter Strike , then you will at least have something to do . The only moral of this film is : The LAPD is good now . No more bad cops in it . If you like uncritical , euphemistic commercials for police and military service , watch this movie . It 's the longest commercial I 've ever seen . ( 2 Points for camera and editing ) .
Honestly before I watched this movie , I had heard many people said this movie was a disgrace . I did not believe that since Morgan Freeman and Kevin Spacey have taken roles in this movie , and watched it by my own . Apparently they were right . I was really disappointed and wondering all the time during the movie - why the hell did I watch this movie . Of course I was not expecting much from Justin as he really does not belong in the movie/theater business . But Morgan and Kevin ? I could not stop asking myself why the heck they agreed to take part in Edison . To be honest , their roles are rather stupid . Well you might think if the players suck , then I should pay more attention to the story . It is indeed story is the core of a movie , but guys ... trust me ... this is not a movie you want to give a credit for its story . Imagine this , a smart-ass journalist ( Justin Timberlake ) wrote a story against the system and at the same time learning how to become a 'real ' journalist from his boss ( Morgan Freeman ) . This all was supported by one agent who still has heart for justice ( LL Cool J ) and an brilliant investigator ( Kevin Spacey ) . At the end , they beat the system with a happy ending story . Jeez , I could not even carry on with this . Just recalling the movie is making me sick already . My advise guys , do n't watch this ! Please save your money and time for another movie .
This was , so far , the worst movie I have seen in my entire life , and I have seen some REALLY bad movies . I saw this movie at my local video store , and the cover looked like it could be a decent horror movie . Little did I know that the cover would be the best part of the movie . Where to start ? The filming of the movie was scattered and boring . At one point , there is a one-minute scene of no one talking , just a car driving to a ranch on a normal sunny day . Nothing happened , they just drove in silence . The whole movie is boring , with annoying , unbelievable dialogue and basically no plot to speak of . If you rent this movie , watch it with some friends and it might make a good comedy . Otherwise , when you see this movie , run .
For movie fans who have never heard of the book ( Shirley Jackson 's `` The Haunting of Hill House '' ) and have never seen the 1963 Robert Wise production with Julie Harris , this remake will seem pretty darn bad . For those of us who have , it is just plain awful . Bad acting ( what was Neeson thinking ? ) , goofy computer enhancements , and a further move away from Jackson 's story doom this remake . Do yourself a favor and rent the original movie . It still effectively scares without hokey special effects . The acting is professional and believable . For readers of the book , the from 1963 follows the it much closer .
This is one of the worst movies i 've ever encountered , but i want to say that some of the criticisms i had heard turned out to be unwarranted.. As far as pure film-making technique goes , this director is competent . He 's held back by the limited budget and the VHS camera , but the actual editing , camera angles , camera movements and scene staging are pretty professional . i 've seen many movies where the `` directing '' was much worse . At least the scenes flow in a way that is not confusing and he has a few clever shots here and there . Also , the forest scenes contained a decent atmosphere . There is only so much you can do with a VHS camera , and he does a nice job as far as the technicalities go . As far as artistic merit , there is none . The scene where the camera pans down so that we can watch a guy urinate in the woods for 15 seconds sort of epitomizes the artistic style of the whole film . This is pure trash ... Total garbage . The gore is decent for a film in this budget range . , it 's obviously fake but there 's lot 's of it , and it 's very outlandish.. I saw the American version with the intentionally campy dubbing . This was a good idea ( and it 's the only thing that allowed me to make it through the film ) ... Unfortunately , it 's overdone , especially towards the end . It 's really a terrible film , but i have to recommend it for it 's camp value . It 's really hard to find a movie that 's worse than this and that sort of puts it in a unique category .
Beautifully photographed and ably acted , generally , but the writing is very slipshod . There are scenes of such unbelievability that there is no joy in the watching . The fact that the young lover has a twin brother , for instance , is so contrived that I groaned out loud . And the `` emotion-light bulb connection '' seems gimmicky , too . I do n't know , though . If you have a few glasses of wine and feel like relaxing with something pretty to look at with a few flaccid comedic scenes , this is a pretty good movie . No major effort on the part of the viewer required . But Italian film , especially Italian comedy , is usually much , much better than this .
Well our standards have gone into the toilet . The direction was poor , the acting was mediocre and the writing was amateurish . And those are the good points . Hopefully there wo n't be a sequel . Otherwise , I might have to leave the country .
This is the worst movie ever made . The acting , the script , the location , everything ! I would have given it a little chance if there were attractive women in the movie , but even they were bad . You would think that a movie with the word `` beach '' in it 's title would have good-looking women in it . Would n't you ?
London Dreams , directed by Vipul Shah , is a frustratingly foolish film about foolish people . It 's the kind of film whose central conflict could be instantly resolved if the characters concerned simply sat down and had a chat . Ajay Devgan plays Arjun , an aspiring pop-artiste obsessed with performing before a cheering crowd at London 's Wembley Stadium . He becomes jealous of his devoted best friend and band-mate Manu , played by Salman Khan , who is evidently more talented than him , but nowhere near as focused or ambitious . Arjun decides to sabotage Manu when the latter 's popularity threatens to outshine his own . Now here 's where a heart-to-heart might have helped . Had Arjun explained what this Wembley fixation meant to him , Manu would have graciously backed off and let Arjun fulfill his childhood dream , and we 'd have been spared the agony of watching the rest of this uninspiring drivel . But director Vipul Shah and his writers are in no mood to do us any favours . London Dreams is packed with unintentionally hilarious gems like that back-story involving Arjun 's grandpa who committed suicide out of shame for getting stage-fright at a packed Wembley concert . Or the ridiculous incident at a show where Manu must take over vocal responsibilities after a blast of confetti practically chokes Arjun into silence . The idiocy , however , does n't end there . In his attempts to shame Manu publicly , Arjun uses his connections to get Manu hooked onto drugs . A buxom groupie urges Manu to down a couple of tequila shots with her but replaces his salt with cocaine . Before you know it , Manu has acquired quite the appetite for the addictive white powder , practically chomping it down like dinner . If that is n't silly enough , there 's a crude scene later in which Manu chases after the said girl to find out who she 's been taking orders from . The pursuit ends in a dark London alley where the girl gets down on her knees pretending to do the unmentionable so as to mislead Manu 's girlfriend who 's been secretly following after them . Wait , there 's more ! Expect to howl hysterically when Arjun snaps off his belt and whips himself mercilessly to banish all thoughts of romance or lust towards the band 's lead dancer Priya ( played by Asin ) because nothing and no one must distract him from his musical goals . Too generously inspired by Milos Forman 's Amadeus for it to merit any comparison with last year 's Rock On ! , Vipul Shah 's latest is a clunky melodrama that 's as loosely directed as it is scripted . The film goes for broad humor , over-the-top emotions , and basically chooses loudness over subtlety . That works for Manu 's character , with Salman Khan playing him all loutish and lovable , but in the case of Arjun , Ajay Devgan comes off too passive with a performance that is mostly internalised . When Arjun does reach boiling point however , it results in an awkward pre-climax scene in which he lectures a packed concert hall and is understandably pelted with plastic bottles as punishment . Of the remaining cast , there 's not a kind word I can say for Asin , who practically lit up Ghajini with her ebullient charm , but disappoints here with unnecessary over-acting in a thankless role . Ranvijay Singh and Aditya Roy Kapur , reduced to mere sidekicks in the band , show up at regular intervals , usually to utter some inane dialogue like , `` We 'll rock it dude ! '' For its dim-witted writing and sloppy direction , London Dreams is ultimately a tiresome watch . If you must , watch it for Salman Khan who 's turned buffoonery into a bonafide acting style . It 's the only thing that 'll make you smile in this sad , sad film .
This is probably the worst movie ever made it is just to bad the name of Roger Corman is associated with it . I could 've understand it in his early years when he had lower budgets but nowadays there is no excuses for giving birth to this ! I 'm a `` B '' movie pervert and from certain people point of view all the flicks I love are put aside by `` regular viewers '' but take my word on this one , Vampire club makes the top of my list of the best of worst.It 's hard to Imagine , vampires with no fangs , the music score is totally out of place , the sound effects are just not effective and finally Mr.Savage does n't seem to know he is in a vampire movie at all witch is too bad 'cause he had a `` not to bad '' career over all . Let me know i'f I 'm to hard on this one cause when I do n't like a movie I tend to forget about it 's good side .
I still ca n't believe how bad this movie was . If I was n't a massochist I do n't know if I would have survived the viewing . It looks like it cost about $ 1000 to make , but it was n't the money that brought them down . The acting was horrid - not just bad , 3rd graders could have read the lines better . Second , the only other reason to watch this kind of movie is the skin , and that is sorely lacking in this flick . We do n't even get to see the more attractive chicas in the buff . Ahh well , better luck next time eh ?
The reviewer from Poland must be a feminist , for she finds `` Young Catherine '' to be a great film and historically accurate . Nothing could be further from the truth . As a practicing Russian historian for many , many years I took exception with YC at almost every turn , and in particular the politically correct depiction of her as the boss who single-handed moved Russia into a direction of dominance . The truth ? She was only brought to St.Petersburg to be a wife and mother , and found she had to `` bond '' with the dvoriane , the boyars , and the military just to survive . So long as she did not challenge them she was able/ permitted to indulge her cultural wishes ( filling up the Hermitage with art treasures , etc. ) . There are so many proofs that she was not `` great , '' but in this area of post-modern revisionism proof is not very popular . YC is only a costume drama , a bit of fluff from Ted Turner that , like `` Peter the Great '' in 1986 , is one more example of how badly Russia is portrayed in the West .
This is actually an insult to the victims and their families of the BTK killer . The events in this movie are not even close to the truth . Why they could n't make a movie of the real events does n't make any sense since the real events are more interesting then this made up farce . Do n't even waste your time watching this for free . Low budget and a shameful depiction of the events which should not be made a joke of , which is really what this movie did . If they would allow me to give a -10 to this movie I would . The acting sucked and it looks like it was shot on an old VHS video camera from the 80s . Save your time and money by not watching this movie .
Oh Geez ... There are so many other films I want to see out there ... I got stuck with my nephew for the weekend and this is what he wanted - Yeah ... I used to watch this show when I was in college ... it was mindless , kinda fun , and somewhat action-oriented . The show had a good heart tho ... and the characters were cute ; no one ever got killed or even hurt badly ... it was like a cartoon come to life . Cut to 2005 ... What happened ? This one does n't work . As others have said , there simply is n't a cohesive story and the performances are weird ... almost annoying - definitely not faithful to the original characters ... the whole thing is a like a Mad TV skit and it lasts over 100 minutes ! This was one of the few times I 've been EMBARRASSED watching a film . What were they thinking ? As best I can tell , must 've been for the product marketing , toys , etc . All I can say is , let this one die a quick death . It makes the original Dukes of Hazzard seem like Masterpiece Theater ... I think the only remake left to do from TV is Gilligan 's Island ... Good Luck !
This film fails to capture any of the mystery and intrigue that the book offers . The main point of the book , the insights , are hardly even touched upon , leaving the viewer wondering exactly why everyone is making such a big deal about them and why they are willing to risk their lives . The character development is not good at all . No background or personal development leaves the audience not really caring at all about what happens to them , and so the action sequences fall flat . The search for the manuscripts ends abruptly , and with no real explanation , not leaving any sense of satisfaction as to what the whole search was for . This is one of the worst adaptations of a book I have ever seen . It is horrible and a waste of time . If you have not read the book , skip the movie and read it . If you have read the book , skip the movie and reread it . It is almost as if the point of making the movie was to discredit the book , that is how poorly done and ridiculous this movie is . It is a shame too , because it could have been good had they capitalized on it at the height of its success and they probably would have been able to get a good screenwriter and some good actors . Please do n't waste your time , READ THE BOOK ! ! !
The Invisible Maniac starts as a young Kevin Dornwinkle ( Kris Russell ) is caught by his strict mother ( Marilyn Adams ) watching a girl ( Tracy Walker ) strip through his telescope ... Cut to 'Twenty Years Later ' & Kevin Dornwinkle ( Noel Peters ) is now a physics professor who claims to have discovered a way to turn things invisible using a 'mollecular reconstruction ' serum . However during a demonstration in front of his fellow scientists it fails & they all laugh at him , Dornwinkle goes mad kills a few of them & is locked away in a mental institute from which he escapes . Jump forward 'Two Weeks Later ' & a group of summer college students discuss the tragic death of their physics teacher when the headmistress Mrs. Cello ( Stephanie Blake as Stella Blalack ) says that she has hired a replacement , yes you 've guessed it it 's Dornwinkle . The student do n't take to him & treat him like dirt , however Dornwinkle has perfected his invisibility serum & uses it to satisfy his perverted sexual urges & his desire for revenge ... Co-written & directed by Adam Rifkin wisely hiding under the pseudonym Rif Coogan ( I would n't want my name to be associated with this turd of a film either ) The Invisible Maniac is real bottom of the barrel stuff . The script by Rifkin , sorry Coogan & Tony Markes is awful . It tries to be a teenage sex/comedy/horror hybrid that just fails in every department . For a start the sex is nothing more than a few female shower scenes & a few boob shots , not much else I 'm afraid & the birds in The Invisible Maniac are n't even that good looking . The comedy is lame & every joke misses by the proverbial mile , this is the kind of film that thinks someone fighting an invisible man or having Henry ( Jason Logan ) a mute man trying to make a phone call is funny . The Invisible Maniac makes the Police Academy ( 1984 - 1994 ) series of films look like the pinnacle of sophistication ! As for the horror aspect that too is lame . It 's also an incredibly slow ( it takes over half an hour before Dornwinkles even becomes invisible ) , dull , predictable , boring & has highly annoying & unlikable teenage character 's . Director Rifkin or Coogan or whatever does absolutely nothing to try & make The Invisible Maniac an even slightly enjoyable experience . There 's no scares , tension or atmosphere & as a whole the film is a real chore to sit through . He does nothing with the invisibility angle , just a few doors opening on their own is as adventurous as it gets . There is very little gore or violence , a bit of splashing blood , a few strangulations & the only decent bit in the whole film when someone has their head blown off with a shotgun , unfortunately he was invisible at the time & we only get to see the headless torso afterwards . The budget must have been low , & I mean really low because this is one seriously cheap looking film . Dornwinkles laboratory is basically two jars on his bedside cabinet ! When he escapes from the mental institution he has all of one dog sent after him & the entire school has about a dozen pupils & two teachers . The Invisible Maniac is a poorly made film throughout it 's 85 minute duration , I spotted the boom mike on at least one occasion ... Lets just say the acting is of a low standard & leave it at that . The Invisible Maniac is crap , plain & simple . I found no redeeming features in it at all , there are so many more better films out there you can watch so there is no reason whatsoever to waste your time on this rubbish . Definitely one to avoid .
The annoying mouse and lullaby really got to me and really had nothing to do with the story ... It 's something I would have done my 1st year in film school . Very sad . Additionally , the story just seemed to drag on for no apparent reason ... there were too many things just thrown in there that had nothing to do with the story , which makes me feel that the creative team did n't really know what they were doing , or just that it should have been shorter ... which would have been a blessing , not a crime . As I have just watched all of the episodes up to this point over the past week ... I 'd have to say that this was by far the worst , and I just wanted to warn others not to start with this one .
This 1996 movie was the first adaptation of Jane Eyre that I ever watched and when I did so I was appalled by it . So much of the novel had been left out and I considered William Hurt to be terribly miscast as Rochester . Since then I have watched all the other noteworthy adaptations of the novel , the three short versions of '44 , '70 and '97 and the three mini series of '73 , '83 and 2006 , and I have noticed that there are worse adaptations and worse Rochesters . This is without doubt the most exquisite Jane Eyre adaptation as far as cinematography is concerned . Director Franco Zerifferelli revels in beautiful long shots of snow falling from a winter sky , of lonely Rochester standing on a rock , and of Jane looking out of the window - but he is less good at telling a story and bringing characters to life . In addition , his script merely scratches the surface of the novel by leaving out many important scenes . As a consequence the film does not show the depth and complexity of the relationship between Jane and Rochester , and sadly it does also not include the humorous side of their intercourse . There are a number of short conversations between Rochester and Jane , each of them beautifully staged , but the couple of sentences they exchange do not suffice to show the audience that they are drawn to each other . We know that they are supposed to fall in love , but we never see it actually happen . The scene in which Rochester wants to find out Jane 's reaction to his dilemma by putting his case in hypothetical form before her after the wounded Mason has left the house is completely missing , and the farewell scene , the most important scene - the climax - of the novel is reduced to four sentences . Zerifferelli does not make the mistake other scriptwriters have made in substituting their own poor writing for Brontë 's superb lines , neither are crucial scenes completely changed and rewritten , but he makes the less offensive but in the end similarly great mistake of simply leaving many important scenes out . What remains is just a glimpse of the novel , which does no justice to Charlotte Brontë 's masterpiece . The cast is a mixed bag : While Fiona Shaw is an excellent Mrs Reed , Anna Paquin 's young Jane is more an ill-mannered , pout Lolita than a lonely little girl , longing for love . The ever-reliable Joan Plowright makes a very likable , but far too shrewd Mrs Fairfaix , and one can not help feeling that Billie Whitelaw is supposed to play the village witch instead of plain-looking , hard-working Grace Poole . Charlotte Gainsbourgh as the grown-up heroine , however , is physically a perfect choice for playing Jane Eyre . Looking every bit like 18 , thin and frail , with irregular , strong features , she comes closest to my inner vision of Jane than any other actress in that role . And during the first 15 minutes of her screen time I was enchanted by her performance . Gainsbourgh manages well to let the audience guess at the inner fire and the strong will which are hidden behind the stoic mask . But unfortunately the script never allows her to expand the more passionate and lively side of Jane 's character any further . As a result of leaving out so many scenes and shortening so much of the dialogues , Gainsbourgh 's portrayal of Jane must necessarily remain incomplete and therefore ultimately unsatisfactory . This is a pity , as with a better script Charlotte Gainsbourgh might have been as good a Jane as Zelah Clarke in the '83 version . But while it is still obvious that Gainsbourgh is trying to play Jane , there is no trace whatsoever of Rochester in the character that William Hurt portrays . Hurt , who has proved himself to be a fine actor in many good movies , must have been aware that he was physically and type-wise so miscast that he did not even attempt at playing the Rochester of the novel . His Rochester , besides being blond and blue-eyed , is a soft-spoken , well-mannered nobleman , shy and quiet , slightly queer and eccentric , but basically good-natured and mild . He is so far from being irascible , moody and grim that lines referring to these traits of his character sound absolutely ridiculous . Additionally , during many moments of the movie , Hurt 's facial expression leaves one wondering if he is fighting against acute attacks of the sleeping sickness . Particularly in the proposal scene he grimaces like a patient rallying from a general anaesthetic and is hardly able to keep his eyes open . If you compare his Rochester to the strong-willed and charming protagonist of the novel , simply bursting with energy and temperament , it is no wonder that many viewers are disappointed in Hurt 's performance . Still , he offends me less than the Rochesters in the '70 , '97 and 2006 versions and I would in general rank this Jane Eyre higher than these three other ones . Hurt obviously had the wits to recognise that he could not be the Rochester of the novel and therefore did not try to do so , whereas George C. Scott , Ciaràn Hinds and Toby Stephens thought they could , but failed miserably , and I 'd rather watch a character other than Rochester than a Rochester who is badly played . And I 'd rather watch a Jane Eyre movie which leaves out many lines of the novel but does not invent new ones than a version which uses modernised dialogues which sound as if they could be uttered by a today 's couple in a Starbucks café . Of course this Jane Eyre is a failure , but at least it is an inoffensive one , which is more than one can say of the '97 and 2006 adaptations . I would therefore not desist anyone from watching this adaptation : You will not find Jane Eyre , but at least you will find a beautifully made movie .
Just got back from a free screening and I 'm very glad I did n't pay to see this very sub-par film . The theater was full and the crowd was a mix of kids and adults . It seemed like it was just the kids who were laughing at all the slap-stick and fart jokes though ( good god they loved to hit these poor mice in the crotch a lot ! ) . The movie is pretty juvenile , unintelligent , predictable , and mostly annoying . The characters just seem to be thrown together to fill in empty space and the relationships between them all seemed very forced with no charm at all . Visually , the film is about average with nothing that really stands out . They did a decent job of mimicking the clay look from Wallace and Gromit , but other than that it 's very forgettable imagery . Although I was really bored throughout the whole film , I chuckled a couple times . It 's not an absolute failure , but I most definitely would not want to watch it again . If you 're a parent with kids ( and you do n't care that your kids see mindless cheap-jokes ) then feel free to take them to see it , but everyone else should n't waste their money .
This picture seemed way to slanted , it 's almost as bad as the drum beating of the right wing kooks who say everything is rosy in Iraq . It paints a picture so unredeemable that I ca n't help but wonder about it 's legitimacy and bias . Also it seemed to meander from being about the murderous carnage of our troops to the lack of health care in the states for PTSD . To me the subject matter seemed confused , it only cared about portraying the military in a bad light , as A ) an organzation that uses mind control to turn ordinary peace loving civilians into baby killers and B ) an organization that once having used and spent the bodies of it 's soldiers then discards them to the despotic bureacracy of the V.A . This is a legitimate argument , but felt off topic for me , almost like a movie in and of itself . I felt that `` The War Tapes '' and `` Blood of my Brother '' were much more fair and let the viewer draw some conclusions of their own rather than be beaten over the head with the film makers viewpoint . F-
Poor Ingrid suffered and suffered once she went off to Italy , tired of the Hollywood glamor treatment . First it was suffering the torments of a volcanic island in STROMBOLI , an arty failure that would have killed the career of a less resilient actress . And now it 's EUROPA 51 , another tedious exercise in soggy sentiment . Nor does the story do much for Alexander KNOX , in another thankless role as her long-suffering husband who tries to comfort her after the suicidal death of their young son . At least this one has better production values and a more coherent script than STROMBOLI . Bergman is still attractive here , but moving toward a more matronly appearance as a rich society woman . She 's never able to cope over the sudden loss of her son , despite attempts by a kindly male friend . `` Sometimes I think I 'm going out of my mind , '' she tells her husband . A portentous statement in a film that is totally without humor or grace , but it does give us a sense of where the story is going . Bergman is soon motivated to help the poor in post-war Rome , but being a social worker with poor children does n't improve her emotional health and from thereon the plot takes a turn for the worse . The film 's overall effect is that it 's not sufficiently interesting to make into a project for a major star like Bergman . The film loses pace midway through the story as Bergman becomes more and more distraught and her husband suspects that she 's two-timing him . The story goes downhill from there after she nurses a street-walker through her terminal illness . The final thread of plot has her husband needing to place her for observation in a mental asylum . Ingrid suffers nobly through it all ( over-compensating for the loss of her son ) but it 's no use . Not one of her best flicks , to put it mildly . Trivia note : If she wanted neo-realism with mental illness , she might have been better off accepting the lead in THE SNAKE PIT when it was offered to her by director Anatole Litvak ! ! It would have done more for her career than EUROPA 51 . Summing up : Another bleak indiscretion of Rossellini and Bergman .
For the first time in years , I 've felt the need to log into IMDb today to cleanse myself of this movie by writing a review , because it was just such a let-down to watch . The plot sounded awesome when I read it , I expected a minimal mystery thriller , a claustrophobic phantom hunt . Unfortunately , it all gets watered down so bad by a mundane , tiring love story and too many contrived and teeth-gnashingly stupid `` no-one-says-things-like-this-except-in-bad-movies '' -dialogs that it 's just agonizing . Here 's a quick run down of the worst offenses of this piece of film : - The script relies so heavily on coincidences and the inexplicable and inexcusable stupidity of the main characters that it 's just laughable . No , actually , it 's angering . And lazy . - Related to that : Cheap thrills . A long parade `` just in time '' moments . - The main characters . Alright , it seems that the screenwriter has never experienced actual human beings in real life , but instead has gained all his knowledge from bad movies . Thus , his characters are boring , lifeless second generation clichés . They are mere plot-devices , place-holders without the slightest bit of personality . They are `` man and woman in break-up who still love each other '' . Never seen that one before except in 100,000 movies and it 's not getting any more realistic or enjoyable . Think of the blandest two-dimensional Hollywood fare and you 've got it . There is not one character in this movie that is even remotely fresh , charming , or interesting . - The far-fetched , vague resolution that 's swaying very bad and needs just one nudge to topple , though the word `` resolution '' might be ill-fitting here , because the movie is a swampy mess that is n't going anywhere anyway . By the time you 're through , though , you do n't care anymore . The last third of the movie I just fast-forwarded , because it was just so unbearable to watch . Okay , that 's it . Whatever redeeming features this movie has , it all gets buried under incompetence . Do n't watch this turd .
If utterly facile , regressive , self-indulgent , anti-establishment , anti-civilisation juvenilia appeals to you , then this is the ideal film . Very poorly scripted , with often inaudible dialogue and infuriatingly tiresome hand-held camera throughout , this is a film that presents the world in appealingly simplistic , Manichean terms : all adults ( especially teachers , parents , priests and doctors ) are insensitive and bumbling at best , and predatory monsters at worst . The only escape from the horrors of civilisation as a whole is plenty of primal screaming ( yawn ) and infantile regression ( literally ) in a primitive cave-like space in the woods , with utopia taking the form of a rave party - again , in the woods ( naturally ... ) . Displays all the weaknesses of a first film , and plenty more besides .
I never was an avid viewer of `` Crocodile Hunter '' , but did occasionally see an episode , or a bit of an episode , and when the news spread about Steve Irwin 's death from a stingray attack in 2006 , it certainly caught my attention . This movie , with Steve and his wife , Terri , playing themselves , but in a fictional story , was released in 2002 , but I did n't hear of it until several years later , and even after that , it took me a while to get around to seeing it . Well , now I have seen it , and after looking here first ( more than once ) , and seeing its rating , I was not surprised at how unimpressive it turned out to be , though it could have been a BIT better . Apparently , it 's supposed to be a comedy , so a major problem with it is that it is n't very funny at all . A U.S. satellite beacon falls down from space and lands in Australia , where it is swallowed by a crocodile ! While Steve and Terri Irwin are on a mission to capture this crocodile from a place where it terrorizes the cattle on a ranch owned by the crazy Brozzie Drewitt , and are unaware of what 's inside it , two CIA agents are sent to Australia to retrieve the beacon ! The agents are assisted by Jo Buckley , and the ranch owner and her dogs might make the mission more difficult for them ! On Steve and Terri 's mission , they face other types of dangerous wildlife , not just the crocodile , and since they have no clue that the croc has anything unusual inside it , when Steve sees the CIA agents after them , he mistakes them for poachers ! Not only did I not laugh once while watching this film , the only part that really made me smile was Steve Irwin using a big snake to scare off one of the CIA agents . Apart from that , I do n't think I found anything even mildly amusing . It 's also a bit of an incoherent mess , switching back and forth from the Australian Outback to the CIA headquarters , and it seems like clips from `` Crocodile Hunter '' and clips from an action thriller ( or something like that ) put together for some reason . Also added to that mix are the ranch scenes , which also seem to be from somewhere else , and as funny as Brozzie Drewitt , played by Magda Szubanski , is supposed to be , she 's not . At one point , we see her farting , so we have a fart joke , a MAJOR cliché in modern comedy ! Are they SO hard to resist ? ! I also found the typical `` Crocodile Hunter '' scenes , with Steve wrestling crocodiles and holding other dangerous creatures and talking about them to viewers , to be tedious , but I guess the fact that I was never a devout fan of the show did n't help . Steve Irwin was admired by many as a conservationist , and is sadly missed by them , while there are also those who say he messed with nature and had it coming to him . No matter which side you 're on , `` The Crocodile Hunter : Collision Course '' is not a well crafted movie . I 'm sure it does help if you 're a big Steve Irwin fan , but even if you are , there 's no guarantee that you would like this movie , as some fans clearly have n't been impressed . In fact , it seems that some of them have found this movie to be worse than I have , so maybe it WO N'T help . Like I said , there 's no guarantee . I would say whatever you may think of Steve Irwin and his show , this movie was unnecessary . The attempt to combine what is usually seen in `` Crocodile Hunter '' with a fictional story unfortunately failed , and a viewer may find that this film seems longer than ninety minutes !
I regret every single second of the time I lost while watching this movie , really . Unhappily , I always find it hard to switch off a movie once I started watching it . Especially , when it 's such a classic or what people use to call a classic . I think that this is one of those movies every movie-lover should have watched at least one time , so that was why I watched it . Do n't get me wrong , I like Humphrey Bogart and his wife Lauren Bacall both as a couple and as actors , but this movie was a big fraud in my opinion . No really good plot , neither an espionage flick nor a romantic love story . Well , not even a convincing mixture of both of these genres . Only thing which caused tension was that it was uncertain whether 'Bogey ' and Bacall would stay together in the end or part from one another . I think `` To Have and Have Not '' is very overrated and Bogart was in many better films during the 1940s .
A young boy comes into a lot of money and promptly begins to live it up . Unfortunately , the man whose money it really is happens to be very bad . He wants his loot back . When he discovers who has the bucks , he begins trying to get it back . He keeps getting foiled by this little kid who is just lucky enough to keep from falling into the evil man 's hands . Sounds familiar , I 'll bet . Very predictable , not interesting at all . Come up with something a bit different , ok guys ?
Near the beginning of `` The Godfather : Part III , '' Michael Corleone 's son wants to drop out of law school and become a musician . Michael Corleone does not want this . But his estranged ex-wife , Kay , manages to convince him to let Anthony Corleone pursue music as he wishes . So he does . That seems like an odd way to start a review , as it is a minor plot point and has nothing really to do with the major action . Just bear with me here ; you 'll see where I 'm going with this eventually . Now let me tell you about the major plot . It is about Michael Corleone wanting to quit crime for good ( he has largely abandoned all criminal elements in his family business ) . But then along comes Vincent Mancini , an illegitimate nephew , who is involved in a feud . So of course Michael must endure yet another brush with criminality and gun violence and all that good gangster stuff . Meanwhile , Vincent has a semi-incestuous affair with Michael 's daughter Mary . Oh , and Michael and Kay are trying to patch up all the horrid things that happened at the end of Part II . It is like a soap opera . One horrid , awful , 169-minute soap opera . Gone is any sort of the sophistication , romance , and emotional relevance that made the first two movies hit home so hard . After a 16-year break in the franchise , Francis Ford Coppola delivered a mess of sop and pretentiousness entirely incongruous with the first two films , once again proving his last great work was `` Apocalypse Now '' back in the 1970 's . What 's worse , `` The Godfather : Part III '' is n't even a logical follow-up of `` The Godfather : Part II . '' Michael is a completely different person . He has n't just gone to seed ( which might be legitimate , even if it 'd be no fun to watch ) . He 's become a goody-goody that 's trying to fix all the tragedy that made Part II such a devastating masterpiece . His confession to the priest was bad enough , but that little diabetes attack in the middle pushed it over to nauseating . He also gets back together with Kay ! For heaven 's sakes , there is absolutely no way that should happen , as the 2nd movie made abundantly clear ! She aborted his baby , and his Sicilian upbringing made him despise her for it . Did n't Francis Ford Coppola even think of these things ? And do n't even get me started on Mary and Vincent 's affair ! For a romance so forbidden , it was shockingly unengaging . Sofia Coppola 's acting did nothing to help . She made the smartest move of her life when she switched from in front of the camera to behind it , because she was possibly THE worst actress I have ever seen in a Best Picture nominee . Every line she delivered was painfully memorized , and every time the drama rested on her acting abilities , all she elicited was inappropriate giggles . In the climactic scene -- I wo n't go into detail , but you 'll know which scene I 'm talking about when/if you watch it -- she looks at Michael and says , `` ... ... Daddy ? '' I think I was meant to cry , but the line was delivered so poorly I burst out into long , loud laughter ! Now we get to the climax , and now you will also realize why I took time to start the review with a description of Anthony Corleone 's musical ambitions . After 140 minutes of petty drama and irrelevant happenstances , Anthony Corleone returns ... with an opera ! So Michael , Kay , Mary , and Vincent go to see it , and for about 10-15 minutes a couple killers walk around trying to assassinate Michael . About this climactic sequence , I must say one thing : It was really good ! But not because of the killers -- they were pretty boring . I just really liked the opera . It had some great music and real great set pieces . And , from what little it showed us , it seemed that the story had echoes of the Corleone family 's origin . I 'll bet it was one swell opera , and I 'll bet Michael Corleone was glad he let his son switch from law school to music . My biggest wish is this : that Francis Ford Coppola had merely filmed Anthony Corleone 's opera for 169 minutes and ditched the rest of the soggy melodrama . Better yet , I wish he had n't made `` The Godfather : Part III '' at all . Part II gave us the perfect ending . This spin off was self-indulgent and unnecessary . P.S . This is not a gut reaction to the film . I watched all 3 Godfather films over a month ago ( though I was rewatching the first one ) . Not only does this mean that my expectations for Part III were n't screwed ( in fact , I had set the bar rather low for it after what I heard ) , but it also means I 've had a good time to think about all three films . While I was a bit disappointed with Part II at first , the more I thought about it , the better it seemed . But with Part III , it was bad to begin with , then got worse the more I thought about it . The sad thing is that many people will stop with Part I , but if they watch Part II as well , they will most likely go on to Part III . If you have the will , watch Parts I & II and pretend like Part III never existed .
This movie does not rock , as others have said . I found it really boring and silly . The story is about this metal high school kid who idolizes this really bad heavy metal singer . The singer dies , but not before making one last album that is to be played over the radio at , of course , midnight on Halloween ( which would actually make it November 1st , a much less potent date to be sure ) . The kid gets a copy of the record and it contains secret hidden back-play messages . It also is the key that opens the door so that the really bad metal singer can return to bring havoc and death to the world . The first part of this film is not a horror film at all , but rather an After School Special . We see the metal kid ( the outsider ) tormented over and over by the popular kids . And he fails to learn the most important lesson in high school movies : When the cool kids who bully you suddenly invite you to a party , DO N'T GO ! It is a trap . Especially if it is a pool party . Anybody surprised when he ends up in the water ? ? It was such an After School Special that I kept waiting for Melissa Sue Anderson to show up and teach Jody Foster a lesson . So back to the horror part of the film . So this metal kid gets some powers and instead of using them to kill the bully boys ( which would have made much more sense ) , he freaks out and tries to protect all of the bully boys and girls from harm . What ? A sensitive hero ? What fun is that in a horror movie ? Thank goodness Carrie White did not follow this lesson . He actually tries to PREVENT having the music played at the Halloween Dance , the very music that could unleash a power to kill all the kids who had been mean to him . If it were me , I would have put that music on , and pronto . The rest of the movie is about this metal kid going around town trying to kill the horrible metal star he idolized . Why not partner with him and REALLY do some damage . Why you ask ? It seems he is in love with one of the popular girls and does not want her hurt..more appropriate for a Molly Ringwald film . Is this a horror film or an episode of Beauty and the Beast ? The movie just goes on and on at this point , with no scares , horror , or anything worth watching . If you went to high school in the late 80s like I did , this movie is fun to have a little flashback to fashions and big hair , but that is it for this film . Skip it and stay home and just listen to some KISS .
Follow-up to 1973 's `` Walking Tall '' continues the real-life drama surrounding Tennessee sheriff Buford Pusser , but this installment plays like a lame TV-movie . Bo Svenson takes over the lead role from Joe Don Baker , but he 's much too mild for the part ; he comes off like an ambling country singer with a bat instead of a guitar . Good supporting actors like Richard Jaekel , Luke Askew and Robert DoQui end up with very little to do . I would give the film one-star strictly on its good intentions , but the screenplay is a transparent and lazy mass of routine predicaments and the production is cheapjack . Followed in 1977 by `` Final Chapter-Walking Tall '' and in 1978 by the television film `` A Real American Hero '' .
I had to give this film a 1 because it 's that bad , but do n't make this think that I did n't enjoy watching , because I laughed and laughed , and I even had a few questions . So half of the time I was laughing , half of the time I was saying `` what in the hell is going on ? '' or `` why would someone do this ? '' et cetera . I mostly enjoyed the terrible fog effects , the 80 's style nude scene/battle/dialogue/nude scene , and the way that the warrior 's swords flap in the wind when they ride their horses . And there 's some crappy model effects ( those are n't supposed to be real trees , are they ? ) and I still do n't understand this guy that they find in the cave , what in the hell is he ? A friend of mine told me about these movies and I thought I would give em a try , and I basically liked the film as people like Ed Wood films , I have no real enjoyment of what the film was meant to be , I look at it in my own hilarious way . So do n't let this distract you if you really thought this was an action movie , it is , I just liked it for other reasons . It 's much , much worse than Evil Dead , so it can actually make you think as though you are wasting your life by watching it ( which came into my mind a few times ) . I guess the best thing for most people would be to have a few drinks , have some friends around , and laugh at this film . Maybe this is a bit harsh , but I do n't think so , rent it and you 'll see . Yo .
The story of a woman ( Ann ) on her death bed , her two daughters ( Nina and Constance ) and her thoughts about her past . The flashbacks are concerning a weekend where young Ann is in the wedding of her friend Lila . At the wedding she meets Harris who will impact her for the rest of her life . Through all the ups and downs of her professional and family life she remembers him as her true love . Her daughter Constance is older , more `` responsible , '' a mother of two and has things together . Nina jumps from boyfriend to boyfriend and job to job and is unsure of her direction in life . First of all the good . The period detail in the movie is great . The dresses , hair , cars , houses , etc . really put you in another time and place . And there is some very quality acting in the movie . Vanessa Redgrave is quite good at portraying the main character and her fragile mental state as her life comes to an end . Claire Danes is beautiful and does a great job as the main character when she was young ( and she is an outstanding singer ) . Hugh Dancy brought a lot of life to the character of Lila 's brother Buddy . Now for the bad , which unfortunately is everything else . Things constantly disrupt the story as it is being unfolded for us . The chemistry between young Ann and Buddy is great . They have fun and dance . Then ... you are supposed to believe that she does n't really like him more than a friend and that his pining only annoys her . And I thought the whole , `` he might be gay '' thing was out of the blue and did n't serve a purpose . Then we have Harris . The character acts wooden and creepy . Had this been another genre , you would have known that Harris was the serial killer from the get go . It is an unbelievable stretch to think that all these girls loved him so ( but they do portray the other guys as pretty lame to try and help him out ) . And the grandest problem of all . Why do n't Ann and Harris get together ? They fall for each other . They have this great night of sex in an old dirty gardener 's shack , come home to find out about Buddy 's tragic end and then ... Nothing . They meet up a few years later and get all misty eyed about each other and I could n't help but wondering why . WHY ? The movie does n't let you know why they were forced to marry other people and so I had a hard time feeling sorry for them . The part of the story in the present is fairly boring . The cliché good daughter and the cliché bad daughter . Nina changes over the course of the movie but I am not sure why . I 'm not sure what convinces her to change her life . There is a `` touching '' scene where the daughters are connecting that coincides with old Ann dreaming she 's chasing a butterfly . It is really lame and embarrassing . `` There are no mistakes '' , Ann advises at us . The statement does n't ring true with the story . And it does n't ring true after seeing the movie and wishing they had n't wasted the talent of such good actors .
I thought that the nadir of horror film making had been reached with `` Book of Shadows '' , I was wrong . This film makes that look like `` The Magnficiant Ambersons '' compared to this piece of shameless , unexpurgated fecal matter that has the audacity to call itself a movie . I 'd write more but I 'm still to angry that I was idiot enough to spend £3 renting it , bobbins . And were these people English ? and where is the forest > I have lived in the UK two thirds of my life and as far as I know there are no dark uncharted woodlands in the midlands . The whole bally thing looked like a national trust conifer plantation . Those angels looked like anorexic pornstars ( turned most of them were , did my research ) . I did however like the bit when Judd got ripped in pieces . P.S I love and admire Tom Savini but HE CAN NOT ACT
After the opening credits , there 's a black screen for about a minute . A minute of nothing , then a girl wakes up and takes a shower.Then her and two college friends are driving to a rock concert , after much padding , they hit something and skid off the road . They awaken in a cabin inhabited by a wheelchair-bound old lady and her offspring.The killings are sadly very tame for a supposed Video Nasty . The twist ending silly and predictable . No one involved in the mess would ever make anything of note again . So there are still happy endings sometimes . Eye Candy : Sara Ansley gets topless , and Laurel Munson has full frontal on display My Grade : D
A terrible movie as everyone has said . What made me laugh was the cameo appearance by Scott McNealy , giving an award to one of the murdered programmers in front of a wall of SUN logos . McNealy is the CEO of SUN Microsystem , a company that practically defines itself by its hatred of Microsoft . They have been instrumental in filing antitrust complaints against Microsoft . So , were they silly enough to think this bad movie would add fuel to that fire ? There 's no public record I see of SUN 's involvement , but clearly the makers of this movie know Scott McNealy . An interesting mystery .
This movie was not made by Who fans . Most of the great moments that fans will look forward to in the half-hour Tommy medley are simply missed or glossed over : In Christmas , they did n't show Daltry 's screams after the line `` Tommy does n't know what day it is ... '' , they showed almost *no* Townsend guitar shots in Pinball Wizard , there were excess crowd shots during the best moments of Go to the Mirror , and worst of all , in the second half of We 're Not Gon na Take It ( Listening to You ) , they robbed us of almost every shot of Pete 's blazing guitar chords . Huge chunks of the film are shot from in back of the band . It 's a very frustrating film to watch , and does n't deliver the goods . I do n't know if director Murry Lerner is just not a Who fan , or worse , for him at least , if he *is* a Who fan and this is all the *eight* cameras could deliver for him . To its credit , there are some rare numbers before Tommy , as well as some faves , that are very well shot , and sometimes the editing is brilliant . This might be enough to make some viewers happy , as long as you 're not anticipating Tommy . The sound overall was mediocre in the transmission I watched from DirecTV ; it may be different on video or DVD .
Having heard so many people raving about this film I thought I 'd give it a go . Apart from being incredibly slow , which I do n't mind as long as the wait is worth it , but it just is n't . As many others have said there are so many inconsistencies and so much of this film just does n't ring true . The reaction of the 4 men switches from shock , horror on finding the body to complete indifference whilst they fish . Surely if they were the type of men that would go on happily fishing , then they would have just reported the body and said they had only discovered it after their fishing trip ... .why on earth tie the body to a tree , go fishing and then tell everyone you found the body 2 days previously ? Its so hard to watch a film knowing that the behaviour of the main characters is so inconsistent . As for the rest of the townsfolk , well you 'd think at least one of them might show some curiosity about who actually killed the woman ! The body itself , naked except for the knickers ... .what scenario leads to that ? If she was raped then why still the knickers ? If she was raped with the clothes on , then why remove them afterwards bar the knickers ? If she was n't raped , then why take all her clothes off bar the knickers ... .leaving yourself with evidence to dispose of ? I truly cant think of any realistic scenario that would lead to that other than killing someone to steal their clothes so you can fill up your jumble sale stall ! Oh well its watchable but only just and only because , despite the poor script , the acting is strong .
Plot = Melissa is a new girl in town , she 's fifteen years old and her birthday is coming up in one week . Since Melissa is beautiful , every boy in town wants to hook up with her , but the few that manage to catch her interest mysteriously die . To be honest the real reason I wanted to watch this film is because Dana Kimmel of Friday The 13th pt 3 was in it which is n't a proper reason why to rush out and see a movie . When I started watching it I realized that `` Sweet Sixteen '' is n't a very good slasher , it 's really dull and boring and just does n't go anywhere . After over an hour , only three murders have occurred and the story has n't really developed in any possible way . The movie is nicely shot with quite nice photography and good directing but just as with many other slasher flicks from the 80s , the movie suffers from being too dark at times . The acting is actually pretty good though and Melissa 's character is easy to sympathize with , even though she 's a complete slut . The story line is n't completely rubbish but it 's just way too dull to keep you interested , the only things that kept me interested was Melissa she was stunning and Dana Kimmel whose really sweet and cute in this movie . All in all pretty dull slasher flick that does n't go anywhere I 'd definitely would n't recommend it to Slasher fans .
Ascension is actually a step up in terms of what the original movie was in story and in special effects . Jason Scott Lee Is good as a vampire hunter looking for the count himself ( if you remember him , he was from the movie Dragon , The Bruce Lee Story . ' ) Jason London is funny as Luke , the kid who helps the woman he loves from a far steal Dracula 's body from the slab . Diane Neal Is good as the woman who steals Dracula 's body in order to finds a cure for her dying boyfriend , And Stephen Billington is great as Dracula himself . Giving a better performance than Gerard Butler did the count in the original film . Roy Scheider rounds out the rest of the cast in this movie , and he does a decent job as the mentor of Jason Scott Lee 's character . This is the second sequel in the trilogy , and they are off to a good start . It 's up in the air whether the last film will close the series out on a good note .
The script is so so laughable ... this in turn , makes the actors ' lines sound stiff and unrealistic and not to be believed . There 's repetition of phrases -- `` my sweet little god daughter '' and minor variations of that line which comes to mind ... and it 's just sloppy soap opera dialog . Worse yet , the music is so WRONG ! Plus , the main bluesy `` theme '' is horribly quaint and entirely wrong for this . And it feels overused mostly because the instrumentation , texture and arrangement of this theme never changes , even when the scene 's emotional context does . Subsequently , whenever it appears , it sticks out like a sore thumb as the main transition from one scene to another . The music 's corny , and it 's as if the writer were writing music for a soap or a sitcom -- a low budget 80 's Canadian sitcom at that -- and this makes it feel as if we 're always on the brink of throwing to a commercial . This is so miscast , there 's a lot of overacting and it 's a real stretch that so many of these characters are employing only ONE type of NY accent -- a thick Bronx accent . I do n't know if it 's a question of the actors ' limited capacity in only knowing *one* NY accent -- or whether it 's a question of the director 's ability to notice such an glaring anomaly . In the end , it 's the amateur script with it 's leaden lines which makes this entire `` movie '' ... blow . When any foundation is shaky and unstable , it 's impossible to build upon it without it 's flaws revealing themselves in exponentially more damaging and unflattering ways .
Yeah , I 'm sure it really could be a nation . . . if four of them all stood at the four corners of the world and the other two cloned themselves a few billion times . Man , I am REALLY glad that I saw this movie on FEAR.net instead of renting it . I 'm a big fan of the George Romero movies and I 'm pretty sure that if he saw this movie , he 'd probably throw up while laughing too hard . I mean , what was with the raccoon girls posing as zombies and walking around like Charlie 's Devils ? It really helped too that the music composer chose the crappy fashion show music for when the zombies walked up to their killer , especially the part where they go into the warehouse posing as the furniture shop/police station/apartment/flat/whatever room it was with the gong in the background , and the live woman was arguing about the closed furniture shop . I could n't even tell what nationality the killer was , and the fact that his accent indicated some multiple nations did n't help either . Oh well , what can I expect from a movie where they throw in a random fight scene for no good reason in a warehouse where they apparently ship boxes of air around the world . So , for all of those who worship Mystery Science Theater 3000 or if you just like reaming on bad C movies ( C for Craptastic ) , then this is the movie for you . . . or not .
This movie is a prime example of squandering great resources in a film . You 've got future SNL and SCTV stars in their prime , such as John Candy , Chevy Chase , Laraine Newman , Al Franken , Tom Davis and Joe Flaherty essentially making 70 minutes of coarse , uninspired fart and racist jokes . The concept of a network from the future subverting society could have really been taken to some interesting extremes , but instead right out the gate , makes a lame , juvenile proctology joke and stays in that vein of humor the whole way.Seek out the earlier and much more subversive and witty Groove Tube or the later , hilarious Kentucky Fried Movie . This movie is only for those who want to see a time capsule of bad 70 's sketch comedy movies .
Horrible acting , horrible cast and cheap props . Would 've been a lot better if was set as an action parody style movie . What a waste . Starting from the name of the movie . `` The Enemy '' Naming it `` Action Movie '' would 've made it better . ( contributing to the parody effect ) . The cop looking like a 60 Year old player , the blond girl just having the same blank boring look on her face at all times . Towards the end of the movie him and her are working together to take down the bad guys and every time they exchange words it just feels like the cheap lines given before a sex scene in a porn movie . Horrible . Do n't waste your time .
I rented this movie about 3 years ago , and it still stands out in my mind as the worst movie ever made . I do n't think I ever finished it . It is worse than a home video made by a high school student . I remember them doing a flashback to 1970 something and in the flashback there was a man with a polo shirt , oakley sunglasses and a newer SUV , like a Toyota Rav-4 or something ( I do n't remember ) . I do n't understand how they could have possibly said that to be in the 70s . He might have had a cell phone too , I cant remember , It was just horrible . I returned it to the video store and asked them why they even carry the movie and if I could get the hour of my life back . To this day it is the worst movie I have ever seen , and I have seen some pretty bad ones .
The first Cruel Intentions , the original , is my favorite movie of all time . It was an absolute masterpiece . So how on earth could they make a sequel so downright bad . Sarah Michelle Gellar was perfect in the first movie . In this one , Amy Adams sucks . She is terrible . And could n't they have found a chick who actually looked like Sarah Michelle Gellar ? At least the same hair color ! ! ! i mean come on . Robin Dunn is n't as bad as Adams , but he is absolutely terrible when compared to Ryan Phillipe . The Sebastian in the first film is devious , deceitful , and much more evil than the Sebastian in the prequel . And what is up with the story line . It basically goes like this ... 1- Sebastian has a bad rep at his first school , so the movie says , although it mentions nothing about him and his dating life , and how he has been with girls 2- Sebastian moves to New York , and just suddenly decides he 's going to turn himself around . He `` falls in love '' with Danielle ( might i remind you that in the original , Sarah Michelle giller says quote `` you broke up with THE FIRST PERSON you ever loved because i said to- so how can he have been in love in the prequel ? ? ? ) . And he 's all nice and charming , and all `` good person '' , as he turns down sex from the chick his dad was doing . 3- He does a complete 180 , and ends up in a threesome at the end of the movie , and then seducing Cherry . I mean , its terrible . And i loved the first one so much . I have n't even seen the third one yet . I hope to god its better than this prequel .
This movie is truly boring . It was banned in Chinese cinema and i can see why . It 's not because it 's critical of the communist regime but simply because the movie is of such low quality . I would never want to pay money to watch this . I love movies from Chen Kaige and Zhang Yimou and i am disappointed such a poor movie could come out of China . It totally seems to ignore the audience and the director seems to have made the movie for himself . The shots of a person standing there doing nothing for up to a minute are hilarious and there 's plenty of them . The cinematography and video quality are unbelievably bad . I looked this film up on the Net and it seems like people actually like this film . The only explanation i have for this is that some film buffs think that if a film is not in English it is automatically good . I ca n't see any reason why people would like this . this is not an art film it 's of waste of celluloid . ( That 's if they actually shot it on film , which they did n't )
If there 's one thing that annoys me most in seeing a bad film , it 's seeing it done by experienced film-makers who ought to know better . This `` re-imagining '' of Planet of the Apes could have used some imagination , to say nothing of essential elements of character development . Nova , the girl in the original Planet of the Apes , was a better developed character than Daena in this version , for all that she does not say a single word . One certainly expected a lot better from Tim Burton , a man who has hitherto combined an incredible visual imagination with intelligence , wit and humour , all of which were notably absent from this production . There were problems in basic plot development . The first big mistake was allowing the humans to talk . This was the fundamental difference between apes and men that made *all* the difference in the original film . Even while he was mute , his ability to communicate was what marked out Heston 's Taylor as being different from the other humans . In the current film , Mark Wahlberg encourages the ( talking ) human slaves to revolt , but there is no overpowering reason for them to have not revolted and reclaimed their emancipation already . They are dexterous tool-users and have the ability to communicate in order to form plans , something mute humans ca n't do . It needs no man to fall from the stars to save them . Indeed , since he comes from a technological civilisation and finds himself in a pre-technology era without ( at first ) any gadgets to help him , it is Wahlberg who ought to be at a disadvantage , not the humans who are used to living there . It was sad to see Helena Bonham Carter working so hard to generate some kind of spark between herself and that unresponsive brick wall Mark Wahlberg . Her best scenes were with the villainous Tim Roth . The humans were practically ignored until they were needed in the third act , at which point Daena started showing some actual interest in Davidson ( Wahlberg ) , and a young boy suddenly changed from part of the background to a feisty gung-ho freedom-fighter . This was poor character development . ( Estella Warren , in particular , looked as if she would have been capable of a great deal more than she was given in the script ) . Wahlberg 's puzzlement at the end as to what these humans see in him was certainly shared by me , as he has scarcely interacted with the humans throughout . Creating the apes : half a plus point and two minuses : Ape make-up was excellent on the males , particularly Michael Clarke Duncan who has incredibly expressive eyes ( which was why he was so good in The Green Mile ) , and the makeup design allowed him to use them fully . But the ape females looked like nothing on earth , neither ape nor human . The minuses were the ape jumps which looked about as realistic as Flash Gordon 's rocket : jumping apes looked as if they 'd just been fired from a catapult , they had none of the long-limbed grace of genuine apes . Secondly , the poor sound mixing - when the gorillas roar it is quite clearly dubbed from some animal , probably feline , making them sound ridiculous and unrealistic . In the original film , the various `` human '' things the apes do and say are handled as light relief ( `` I never knew an ape I did n't like . '' `` Human see , human do ! '' ) . Here , the apes just talk matter-of-factly exactly as 21st Century humans do , and there is no humour in it at all . The only genuinely original idea was Ari writing with her feet . Nothing made me cringe more than the `` V-Ger from Star Trek '' moment near the end of the film . First of all , the apes had apparently been able to read Roman lettering in the distant past , for them to know the name of the Forbidden Zone in its partly concealed form . Secondly , the mysterious inscription giving the name is merely covered with sand which Wahlberg just brushes away , something any ape could have done centuries ago . This moment was , for me , far worse than the much-maligned ending of the movie . Things of that nature , however , are typical of most science fiction movies of today . Back in the '60s and '70s , they generally did n't have the budget to make convincing futuristic sets , but they dealt with genuinely original themes and ideas which were truly science fictional . I 'm thinking of 2001 : A Space Odyssey , the 1967 Planet of the Apes , THX1138 , Soylent Green , Silent Running and the 1972 Solaris . The first Planet of the Apes even utilised the only scientifically valid and physically possible method of travelling forward in time . However , this film includes just about every bad science fiction cliché going : space storms , anomalies and worm holes straight out of Star Trek ; the planets of the solar system and their moons apparently all visible together as large globes ( in reality from any one planet , all other bodies , even their own moons , are just points of light ) ; a conventional rocket powered shuttle travelling from Saturn to Earth in a matter of minutes instead of years ; two-thousand year old equipment firing up and fully working the minute the hero presses the button . To say nothing of a conveniently bulletproof internal glass door . In a contemporary setting , you 'd have to explain *why* it was bullet proof , but because it 's `` science fiction '' you do n't have to ! Overall , Burton 's most disappointing film .
If you 're a fan of the late Gram Parsons then this movie is definitely going to divide you ! Part comedy , part road movie , but mostly a bad fictionalization of one of rock history 's oddest tales . SPOILERS -- Basically the story concerns a well-known roadie named Phil Kaufman ( played by Johnny Knoxville ) who `` supposedly '' made a pact with cult rock/country/folk music hero Gram Parsons that stated when one of them died first ( it did n't matter which one it was ) that the other living one was to take the deceased out to the desert , Joshua Tree National Park in California to be exact , and set the body ablaze ... so as to free the spirit and become one with the earth , and so on ! Sure to keep his word the barely sober Kaufman , with the assistance of a self-hating , pot-headed buddy , jacks the body of the late Parsons -whom had fatally overdosed from a drug and booze bender a day prior- from the airport . And shortly after that what ensues is a cringe-worthy combination of fiction and truth where the late Parsons girlfriend , Kaufman 's girlfriend , Parsons stone-faced father , and a gaggle of police officers and other pointless idiotic characters all try to beat the clock ( so to speak ) in trying to catch Kaufman and his pal before they get the chance to torch Parsons body ! The film 's incompetent direction , bad acting , and lame offbeat tone in general all sink this movie faster than the Titanic . And not to mention the huge fact that this movie is not even halfway telling the truth of the actual events that took place . The accuracies that should have replaced the inaccuracies , as far as I 've heard them , include : number 1. , Parsons was married at the time of his death and even had a child , so what the hell was that all about with the girlfriend 's and the chasing and whatnot ? , number 2. , Kaufman 's drugged-out buddy was a known willing participant ( unlike what the movie attempts to portray ) in the disposing of Parson 's body , and finally number 3. , Gram Parsons real-life father died when he was just a boy , and so it was Parson 's step-father ( who could have honestly cared less about Gram Parsons when he was still alive ) in real-life that took care of the body after it was torched ! Altogether though , what probably disturbs me the most about this movie is that the real Phil Kaufman was actually on set to help assist with the facts of the story . And yet still , the movie ended up becoming so untrue and so bad that it really boggles my mind , frankly ! Also as the mediocre aforementioned acting in the film is concerned it 's lead character , played by the ultra-grating Johnny Knoxville ( Phil Kaufman ) , is not only a bad actor but it actually seems as if he were asleep throughout most of the movie , and the rest of the pathetic cast are for the most part either hysterical , brain-dead , or seem utterly clueless as to what they 're actually doing there in the first place ! Overall , if you like Johnny Knoxville and or really dig the so-bad-they're-not-even-good buddy flicks then I suppose you just might get a kick out of this movie ! But , if you 're like me and are a fan of the late Gram Parsons , enjoy films that attempt to tell the truth as much as they can especially if they 're based on an actual real-life story , and or you just like good films , be-them road movies , or fictional slice-of-life stuff , you will truly loathe this film and advise others to do likewise . I obviously hated this movie and wished it had never been made in the first place , but since it was made I would have preferred it to have turned out differently than what it did , unfortunately ! Maybe some day the real facts of the story will come through and be made into a really great biopic on all of Gram Parsons life ... not just what happened to his body after his spirit left it . But , until that time comes all we as an audience , and or fans of the late performer get is this sad waste of film and an all-around terrible memorial ( of sorts ) to the musical legacy that Gram Parsons was known to have left behind . It should also be noted that they did actually use Parsons music , and a few others as well in the flick , but not surprisingly though , you never get to hear enough of it to really enjoy it even in the slightest bit . ( Turkey-Zero Stars )
All of the X-Men movies were great . And I mean all of them , including the long hated X-Men 3 . They had solid characters ( Magneto and Xavier were the best ones , in my opinion ) , and a good story arch . I was all excited when I heard this movie was on production , and my expectations grew bigger and bigger until I saw the movie . I was so disappointed . Hugh Jackman is not a bad actor ( his best movie is The Fountain , although you wo n't hear about this movie when they talk about the actor ) , and his acting is not what screws the movie up . The whole film is plagued with lots of meaningless characters that add nothing to the plot ( like Blob or Gambit ) , which were tossed there to make fans believe that the film makers had read the original comics . I am a fan of XMen , I have read many , many of their stories and this movie respected none of them . None . Not even the continuity . It does n't respect Weapon X project , or the relationship between Wolverine and Sabretooth , or Emma Frost , the motivations for wolverine are plain stupid and seen in millions of movies : Revenge for the death of a loved one . Oh . What I was expecting the whole darn movie was a Berseker moment for Wolverine similar to the one he has in X2 in the school when Stryker men come in and he alone decimates the enemy forces , but hey , this is Fox , this a family flick and you will not see explicit violence from the most violent and gruesome Marvel hero . Besides , I had a feeling of constant dejá vù with this movie because Wolverine 's Origins are already explained in X2 , we already know how he got his adamantium skeleton so it kind of does not make sense to make a movie of something we already know . I personally believe that wolverine is one of those few characters that does not need a solid back-story because mystery is the nature of the character . Do we really want to know how the Joker got his scars ?
I am stunned to discover the amount of fans this show has . Have n't said that Friends was , at best an 'average ' sitcom , and not as great as others have made out . Let 's face it , if it was n't for the casting of Courtney Cox Arquette , David Schwimmer , Matthew Perry , Lisa Kudrow , Jennifer Aniston and Matt Le Blanc , then who knows whether this show would 've lasted as long as it has done . I very much doubt that . Although as the series progressed , Friends got more progressively predictable , lame and boring that I could n't care less about the characters- of whom are the most overrated in TV history- or of their plight , nor of who was sleeping with whom . And it went from being funny in the first four seasons to occasionally funny . And even when it had all these A-list Hollywood actors from the movie world , I still did n't bother to tune in . The writing in Friends became stale that I lost interest in this show from the sixth season onwards and as for the ending , well it was predictable to say the least . What was annoying though was that this lasted for ten seasons , whilst some of my favourite shows lasted for only three , four seasons for instance and were eventually cancelled and taken off the air for good . The show should 've came to an immediate halt by the time the cast wanted bigger salaries . In truth , as much as the series waned , it was the show that was bigger than the actors themselves , not the other way round . When it ended in 2004 , I was so relieved to see the back of this sitcom . Now , there is talk of a friends reunion show coming to our TV screens very soon . And yet , I for one will not be looking forward to it whatsoever .
Words fail me . And that is n't common . Done properly this could have been great , funny spoof B-movie sci-fi , but sadly , it was not to be . Rarely in the field of drama have so many competent actors struggled so vainly with such a dogs-breakfast of a script . I can only endorse the previous reviewer 's comments - go clean the bathroom . In fact do ANYTHING except watch this film . Positives : Lucy Beeman 's nose . Negatives : Everything else . Most apposite line : `` This is n't going anywhere '' . If only every plastic surgeon could meet with such a fate .
This is simply the worst movie I 've ever seen . Neither of the three central characters has any charm , and Erika 's good looks are n't enough to carry the film . The lamest plot I 've ever had inflicted upon me . Also the most unconvincing military comedy ever . Why did they bother ?
This is one of those films that I could only sit through once . Charlotte Henry is fine -- in fact , all the actors were fine . The problem was in the script , the dialog , the direction , the editing , the sets and the special effects . Granted , this was 1933 , but it really creaked . Part of the problem is that actors like Richard Arlen , Gary Cooper , W.C. Fields and Cary Grant are not recognizable ( there faces cried for a recognition that was not forthcoming ) . The movie just clumped along with no cohesion . Much of Lewis Carrols spirit , humor and continuity are missing . What a pity ! It 's such a great book . I would recommend Disney 's 1951 version .
This is one of the worst movies I 've ever seen . I saw it at the premiere at SXSW and was extremely disappointed . The director knew little about John Lennon and even said as much at the premiere . This is a drama , but people were laughing throughout at how cheesy the film was . That 's never a good sign . The only saving graces were Dominic Monaghan and Jason Leonard as Livien 's roommates/bandmates . They were funny while the rest of the movie took itself waaay too seriously . The cheesy dropping of Beatles lyrics was just absurd . The soundtrack was excellent , however , and was probably the best part of the movie . Unless you 're one of those crazy , rabid Dominic Monaghan fans , do n't bother with this one .
Five minutes into this movie you realize that you have seen it all before . It is BOILER ROOM . It is THE FIRM . And it is THE DEVILS ADVOCATE . And there are NO new elements here . Except for the all-to-clear Bill Gates-allegory . Conpsiracies are always good stuff for movie-making , but why does it have to be so extreme ? Boiler room is a good movie , because it - for a while at least - seems realistic . In Antitrust everything is wrong . How realistic is it for example that your boss pay an impostor to be your girlfriend in order to make you work harder and control you ? I 'd give it 1 , but the soundtrack is OK , so 2/10 .
This movie is pure guano . Mom always said if you ca n't say anything nice ... but even Mom would say I had to do my part to warn others of this movie . I can guarantee this is the film that Geoffrey Rush wishes would just go away . I would hope that Greg Kinnear fired his agent..from a cannon for giving him the script . After this Ben Stiller is probably praying for someone to pitch `` There 's Still Something About Mary . '' I have always been a fan of Wes Studi 's , thank whatever you hold holy that he wore a mask through the film so maybe people wo n't identify the film with him . It starts of promisingly with a stylistic spoof of the cinematography of the Batman films and then just loses something ... like a coherent plot and half decent effects . The jokes are telegraphed an hour before the punchline comes , and even then they fall flat . If you want to see an effective spoof of the comic book world see `` Chasing Amy '' . RUN ! DO N'T WALK AWAY FROM `` MYSTERY MEN '' !
I ve finished seeing the movie 10 minutes ago..WoW i still cant believe what i 've watched . This is absolutely the worst movie EVER . If i would list all the flaws in the movie , this review would take me a lot of sentences . ( very funny flaws , because of being that bad though ) You got to be Amazed with the skill of the commandos assigned to rescue the plane . they did n't even know how to move . Ice-t is so bad actor ... and the thing i do n't understand , is how the production wanted him to be like a hero , but he 's a zero.. of course the major flaws will be the landing of an 747 , needing only 3 or 4 tips from a guy in transmission to land the plane ... amazing.. as well as the dead bodys that had almost no blood at all.. But i strongly recommend of watching this movie , as its very interesting to see how bad can something get
The subject notwithstanding , this is an amateur , exhibitionist movie -- or an effort at one -- which is about as interesting and daring as a moody high school student 's composition book full of death `` poetry '' . To be sure , it will disturb viewers who are hell-bent on being disturbed , but the success will be attributable to themselves , not to the director . To genuinely get under somebody 's skin requires sensibility , discipline , technique , and talent , as well as an eye and an ear . The film does contain one evocative image , shown as a still ( and also used on the video case ) , but with no development leading up to or away from it . If the director had had an eye , he would have seen it as a possible starting point for an interesting movie -- that is , a movie .
I enjoy watching western films but this movie takes the biscuit . The script and dialogue is laughable . The acting was awful , where did they get them from ? Music was OK i have to say . Luckily i did n't buy or rent the movie but its now disposed of . I was geared up at the beginning when the stranger ( martin sheen ) started to tell his story . I have to admit i did enjoy the confrontation between Hopalong and Tex where Hopalong shot Tex 's finger off and told him to practise for 40 years to reach his league . But thats where it all went pear shaped thereafter . I had to watch the whole film in the hope that it would get better , never did .
I loved the first `` Azumi '' movie . I 've seen Ms. Ueto in a variety of her TV appearances and I 've seen my fair share of samurai and ninja flicks . I have to say that this movie was much weaker than I 'd expected . Given the movie 's cast and set up in `` Azumi '' , they should have been able to do a much better job with this movie , but instead it was slow , plodding in parts , and sprinkled with very poor , unconvincing , and wooden acting . When they bothered to reference the first movie , they did so in a manner that was pretty loose and weak . In `` Azumi '' , the title character is the best of a group of superior killers . In `` Azumi 2 '' she seems somehow diminished and less-impressive . That 's not to say it was a total loss . There were a few decent fight scenes and some over-the-top characters . Unfortunately , the movie suffers overall from the simple fact that Shusuke Kaneko and Yoshiaki Kawajiri are not Ryuhei Kitamura and Isao Kiriyama . The latter two truly captured the `` manga '' feel in their screenplay whereas the former never quite `` got it . ''
Oh man . If you want to give your internal Crow T. Robot a real workout , this is the movie to pop into the ol ' VCR . The potential for cut-up lines in this film is just endless . ( Minor spoilers ahead . Hey , do you really care if a film of this quality is `` spoiled ? '' ) Traci is a girl with a problem . Psychology has developed names for it when a child develops a sexual crush on the opposite-sex parent . But this girl seems to have one for her same-sex one , and I do n't think there 's a term for that . It might be because her mother Dana is played by Rosanna Arquette , whose cute overbite , neo-flowerchild sexuality and luscious figure makes me forgive her any number of bad movies or unsympathetic characters . Here Dana is not only clueless to her daughter 's conduct ; she seems to be competing for the gold medal in the Olympic Indulgent Mother competition . It 's possible that Dana misses Traci 's murderous streak because truth be told , Traci seems to have the criminal skills of a hamster . It 's only because the script dictates so that she manages to pull off any kind of a body count . A particularly hilarious note in this movie is the character of Carmen , a Mexican maid who is described by Dana as around so long she 's like one of the family although she dresses in what the director thought would say , `` I just fell off the tomato truck from Guadalajara . '' Carmen is so wise to Traci 's scheming , she might also wear a sign saying , `` Hey , I 'm the Next Victim ! '' Sure enough , Traci confronts Carmen as Carmen is making her way back from Mass , and bops her with one of those slightly angled lug wrenches that car manufacturers put next to your spare as a bad joke . I rather suspect than in real life those things are as useless as a murder weapon as they are for changing a tire . In another sequence , Arquette wears a flimsy dress to a vineyard , under cloudy skies , talking to the owner . Cut to her in another flimsy dress under sunny skies , talking to the owner 's brother . Then cut to her wearing the first dress , in the first location , under cloudy skies - but it 's supposed to be later . You get the picture . We 're talking really bad directing . As for skin , do n't expect much , although Traci does own a nice couple of bikinis . For those looking for a trash wallow , 8 . For anybody else , 1/2 .
This ludicrous film offers the standard 1970 's `` hippie mentality '' in a nut shell and bores us in the process . Its an attempt to rationalize absurd marriages of young , innocent women with old age sex fiends and wash ups . A naive young hippy played by the waif-like ( Kay Lenz ) hitch hikes and sleeps with all the wrong guys , and then one day she meets the ridiculous ( Holden ) , already in old age , hard liquor drinking and washed up as an actor , and she decides that she is in `` love '' with him . If you think that is superficial , the whole film encapsulates such scenes . She keeps saying how much she `` loves '' him and she only met him , it wears thin and really quick . I could n't help but laugh throughout the film . Its obvious she 's just using him as a meal ticket but the director is immature enough to think we are going to buy that there is actually any love taking place . A disgusting scene is where the two are naked and having sex , I had to fast forward it because it almost inspired me to vomit . A corny offering of music from the 70 's is also spread through the film . Avoid this if you can . Grade D .
It really impresses me that it got made . The director/writer/actor must be really charismatic in reality . I can think of no other way itd pass script stage . What I want you to consider is this ... while watching the films I was feeling sorry for the actors . It felt like being in a stand up comedy club where the guy is dying on his feet and your sitting there , not enjoying it , just feeling really bad for him coz hes of trying . Id really like to know what the budget is , guess it must have been low as the film quality is really poor . I want to write 'the jokes did n't appeal to me ' . but the reality is for them to appeal to you , you 'd have to be the man who wrote them . or a retard . So imagine that in script form ... and this guy got THAT green lit . Thats impressive is n't it ?
This is your typical Priyadarshan movie -- a bunch of loony characters out on some silly mission . His signature climax has the entire cast of the film coming together and fighting each other in some crazy moshpit over hidden money . Whether it is a winning lottery ticket in Malamaal Weekly , black money in Hera Pheri , `` kodokoo '' in Phir Hera Pheri , etc. , etc. , the director is becoming ridiculously predictable . Do n't get me wrong ; as clichéd and preposterous his movies may be , I usually end up enjoying the comedy . However , in most his previous movies there has actually been some good humor , ( Hungama and Hera Pheri being noteworthy ones ) . Now , the hilarity of his films is fading as he is using the same formula over and over again . Songs are good . Tanushree Datta looks awesome . Rajpal Yadav is irritating , and Tusshar is not a whole lot better . Kunal Khemu is OK , and Sharman Joshi is the best .
I had VERY low expectations for this alleged `` re-imagining '' of the original -- and they were n't even met ! What were they thinking ? ( Answer : They were n't . ) Please do n't waste your time on this Hollywood trash fest . Clip your nails , balance your checkbook , do anything besides watch this . Remember : If you rent stuff like this , it will only ensure they make more .
Non existent plot , tons of poorly directed / super-cheesy scenes ( Snipers / world famous sharpshooters who ca n't even hit their targets a few feet away ? plus what 's up with the ending ? -- - > a bunch of law enforcers vandalizing a carnival 's shooting gallery ? WTH ? ) , technical mistakes ( how many bullets can you fit into a magazine of a glock ? 100+ ? These people fire their guns without the need of reloading ) . The movie is so bad that even senior Hollywood actor like Michael Biehn ( Aliens , terminator ) ca n't save this junk . DO not watch this movie ( I realized that I wasted some good 100 minutes of my precious life on this one ) . Hopefully the director would either stop making movies , or learn more for his next movie .
We all have seen some unending epics in our times , but this one really tops them all ! The movie is so long and so slow , that , just to put things in perspective , i felt a lot older when i left movie hall , than I entered it . At almost 4 hours length , it could have rather been made into a tele-serial . What starts as a promising comedy slowly loses its pace . Nikhil advani has woven the plot around 6 love stories and he cant make justice to any one of them ... There is no interconnection between them to start with , and links shown in last 20 minutes just seem to be forced to connect the story . Situation is made worse by Silly dialogues ( most of them repeated in Hindi cinema over years ) and stupid cinematography . Priyanka does n't realise that she actually needs to play her role rather than just looking glam on screen ... An utter waste of beauty without acting skills . And then there is loud-is-humorous Govinda & my-face-twists-better-than-jim-carrey Akshay Khanna who keep belching at the top of their lungs to irritate already tired viewers . Only good part in movie is John & Vidya 's love story & nice acting/comedy by sohail & Isha . But they are so good at their roles that just these two couples could have justified the movie without jumbling it with other bunch of characters . Their brilliance gets lost in the midst of other substandard plot lines . My guess - Director was making two separate movies ( may be more ! ) and some beginner assistant mixed up all the records , beyond a point of sorting them out , so director was left with no choice to show it all as a single movie ... Watch it only if you want to test your patience ! ! !
I can not believe I wasted my money to rent this movie . I thought it was a porn flick when it started and it never got any better . The acting , the music drowning out the actors . Horrible . Save your money ! You have to read the movie all the way through b\c they knew the music would drowned out the speaking lines . I never got the part about the slaughterhouse or the need to continue to show cows and pigs being butchered . What did that have to do with the `` real '' BTK killer ? I understand why there were no famous actors\actresses in this movie . The script would have turned me away within the first page of reading . You would be better off watching paint dry .
By 1941 Columbia was a full-fledged major studio and could produce a movie with the same technical polish as MGM , Paramount or Warners . That 's the best thing that could be said about `` Adam Had Four Sons , '' a leaden soap opera with almost terminally bland performances by Ingrid Bergman ( top-billed for the first time in an American film ) and Warner Baxter . Bergman plays a Frenchwoman ( this was the era in which Hollywood thought one foreign accent was as good as another ) hired as governess to Baxter 's four sons and staying on ( with one interruption caused by the stock-market crash of 1907 ) until the boys are grown men serving in World War I . Just about everyone in the movie is so goody-good it 's a relief when Susan Hayward as the villainess enters midway through — she 's about the only watchable person in the movie even though she 's clearly channeling Bette Davis and Vivien Leigh ; it 's also the first in her long succession of alcoholic roles — but the script remains saccharine and the ending is utterly preposterous . No wonder Bergman turned down the similarly plotted `` The Valley of Decision '' four years later .
at the beginning i was happy to know about a new superman movie , i though that will be great but it was n't . is a bad copy of the Richard Donner work , Lex is again a villain that makes no more else , even played by Kevin spice . the evil plan is the same of the first movie of Donner just a lot forced . the script is predictable and simple ( all stuff Luthor finds in a museum or an old lady ) . the story is the wrong thing , it must be the Kevin Smith Script and may be it could be better . i just hope a sequel without Brian Singer and with a new talent director to do something new and not a copy . all read you later
I attended one of the premieres last night and have the following observations : 1 . Just because you 've directed a ton of music videos DOES NOT make you qualified to make movies . The movie had an overabundance of lingering shots that made no sense , horrible angles , and terrible lighting . The editing did n't help this mess at all . When `` Dixie '' shows up late for the memorial service her mother remarks about her hand but it 's never clear what the heck she 's talking about . 2 . The plot had promise , but the script was thin and full of Ford Truck sized holes . We never get to understand what drives the characters , what 's really behind the conflicts they all have with each other or exactly how they resolve them . Sixteen years of distance is wiped out in 4 days seemingly by magic . The deep conversations were marred by stupid clichés . ( In fact , the whole town was one big cliché of southern life . ) Half the audience groaned when Toby drawled `` Ya got my blood runnin through your veins gurl '' ... and we were treated to that insipid line not once , but TWICE ! The revelations were yawn inducing , and the dramatic confessions boiled down to `` I was stupid and stubborn '' . 3 . The acting was okay considering the wreck of a script they had to work with . Toby was dark and brooding most of the film , but when he smiled and lightened up he was charming . It 's a shame he did n't have more screen time like that . Kelly Preston 's acting chops are pretty rusty and it shows . Lindsay Haun is talented and it 's certainly not her fault the writers made her character so unlikeable in the beginning that you do n't blame her father for not coming to look for her . Burt Reynolds and Tess Harper were able to make more of this movie but still looked more or less lost . ( And indeed , their characters get lost in this film ! ) 4 . If you 're a Toby fan you 'll love the songs . But often the movie felt like a scene was forced in just so they could feature one of his songs -- or the artists on his record label . For instance , the movie 's official love song is `` Crash Here Tonight '' . You 'd think that would play around a tender love scene , but nope ... we hear about 45 seconds of it as he 's heading to a memorial service . It was as if they said `` well , we got ta use this song somewhere '' . The song `` Broken '' is haunting and the best thing to come out of this movie . In summary ... a promising plot never fully develops and the movie is horribly uneven as it forceably tries to be a vehicle for Toby Keith 's music and product placement for Ford Trucks . It goes from being about people rebuilding broken bridges to trying to be about the power of music but the story is told so poorly that both points get lost in this overgrown music video . I like Toby and really wanted to like `` Broken Bridges '' but the people he counted on to make this movie let him down and deserve one of his famous boots you know where .
A film as bad as this should be withdrawn from all stores world wide . So full of boring , dull , unimaginative characters , and with a lead character with such an annoying attitude and dry voice constantly giving a thoughtless voice over for every action and feeling , this film holds the record for the most challenging film I have ever watched . As I had payed money to own it , I felt a duty to see it through , and how I regret it . My head hurt throughout because of the terribly dull characters and their pointless , plot less lives . A bunch of kids who have zero knowledge about anything , are all frigid and worst of all , have terrible dialogue throughout , just mulling around as the main character tries to get a date with the girl . Boring , so much so my friend was shaking with hatred and I was red with embarrassment that I 'd thrown away £6 . The DVD was on eBay the following day , and I did n't make much of my money back . Avoid like the plague .
So , I know that I voted 1 out of 10 but really this deserves no more than half of a star . I hated it . It was so stupid and unrealistic , I ca n't believe any of the stars signed on to make this ridiculously absurd project . James G. and Cathrine O'Hara were excellent in their characters and Ben Affleck and Christina Applegate were just as good too , but the story sucked and I encourage anyone who sees this in the video store to not even bother picking it up and reading the back cover , but to just walk away ... I do n't even want to get into what the movie is about , because it is too stupid to pontificate about . Do n't rent this ! It 's horrible ! Horrible !
Stephen King is generally known for the morbid , and that 's fine , but this story is too morbid . Some movies , by the end you feel sad for the characters or the situations they were put through ... here you just feel depressed . The movie has a nice feel to it ( at first ) , with the family moving to the country , and creepy old Fred Gwyne greeting and warning them of the pet cemetery , but this plot leads nowhere . It starts with so much potential , but by the end , it loses the potential to be a good horror movie , and becomes corny , extremely stupid , and ultimately depressing . Louis ( Dale Midkoff ) , his wife Rachel ( Denise Crosby ) , their kids Ellie and Gage , and their cat move to a new home in Maine . They are warned by the loony farmer neighbor Jud ( Fred Gwyne ) about the local pet cemetery and how it is cursed . Louis thinks nothing of this and everything 's fine until the family cat is killed . He bury 's it in the cursed cemetery and it comes back to life , constantly hissing at the family and wanting to be left alone . One day , infant Gage runs out in the road and is run over and killed by a truck , and Louis knows he must bury him in the cemetery . When Gage comes back to life , he is changed and wants to murder . With many of Stephen King 's works that do n't translate well into films , I blame the directors and screenwriters . In this case , Mr. King was the screenwriter , but I 'm going to blame him for his awful story . By the end it 's so pointless , and though unfunny , the premise is laughable . A little boy comes back from the dead and manages to kill people with what looks like a tiny scalpel , and not only that , but he manages to lift their bodies and in one case , carry a body from the ground to the attic ! ( ? ) I know this is n't set in reality but seriously , how stupid can this get ? The scene where Louis injects his deceased , now living again cat to kill it is strangely sad , because the cat did not deserve this . All it did was go around minding it 's own business and he killed it . The scene where he injects his own infant son is almost unbearable . Not unbearably sad , but the whole situation is just awful to think of . After being injected Gage staggers drunkenly around before falling down dead ... .why did they need to make a movie ending with the death of an infant ? But ... even worse , the actual ending of them film involving Louis burying someone else ( Not going to give away who ) in the cemetery after Gage kills them ... .what did he expect ? Why did Mr. King write this horrible story and why was it made into a movie ? It 's depressing and pointless ! My rating : * out of **** . 90 mins . R for violence .
We 've all been there , sitting with some friends watching a bad movie , laughing at how terribly it was made and how poor the acting was ; eventually the credits roll and everyone looks around and says `` how is it possible such a movie was made ? who paid money to have this script made into a feature film ? '' Well Jigsaw is not that kind of film , instead of asking how this garbage was budgeted you wonder why the makers were shot out of a cannon into the sun . Yes , Jigsaw is quite possibly the worst movie ever made or conceived , this coming from a guy who has seen Campfire Stories and Fever Lake . The film starts out in some kind of college class , what kind of class I am unsure , but it is imagined to be an art class . Now these dorks have been given a final project by their idiot teacher , five of them are given pieces of a mannequin and told to design it in any way they see fit , and since there are only five pieces the other students in the class receive and automatic A , oddly enough there are only six students in this entire class so the one goth chic gets a free A , good for her ! A week passes and the five students , plus teacher , plus one hillbilly husband meet in a bar to discuss their and complete their project , they put the pieces together , head , arms , legs and inform the others why they chose their specifics designs , now these creative geniuses used the week to their full advantage , one puts a saw blade in the left hand , the other gets a sawed off shotgun , the right leg gets a bunch of broken ceramic glued to it and the left some magazine clippings , the head is the worst getting a camera in the eye , ala Hellraiser 3 , with some bottle rockets for a stylish mo-hawk . After they have all spilled their guts about their specifics designs the now drunk teacher says they are to burn the mannequin , now aptly named Jigsaw . Now up to this point it has been standard horrible movie fair , bad acting , dialog and everything else , but has still been pretty plausible , yet after Jigsaw catches fire things take a turn for the worst ... Jigsaw comes alive.. How you ask ? I have no idea , he just does because the writers could n't think of a realistic way for two pounds worth of molded plastic to become alive ( Come on guys , a bolt of lighting , a traveling voodoo priest , anything could have worked . ) So once Jigsaw comes to life he uses his new abilities of walking very slow and stilted with the use of his molded fingers to wreak havoc . First he kills the cool guy with some barb wire , this guy who was about to get it on with a hot chic decides drinking ground beer off in the distance is more important than what is in front of him . With him gone Jigsaw shoots the sexy girl in the face and then gives an old man a heart attack with a slight twist of his head , he then saws up a nasty looking southern woman and then her hillbilly husband ; Jigsaw then kills the nerdy guy with some headless deception . Did I mention Jigsaw was taking body parts off his victims to make a human version of himself ? No ! Well its not important they do n't even show his macabre creation , they do n't even show him steal away a torso from his poor creators ( Maybe he was trying to create the head detective from In Living Color ) . So after these five have been killed the teacher and the nerdy girl are all who is left , the teacher figures out that Jigsaw only needs a head to finish his masterpiece , since he is still uninterested in that torso thing . So being the coward he is the teacher ties up the girl as a sacrifice to Jigsaw who comes in only to go for the teacher with his electric buzz saw which is n't even plugged in . That is where the freaking movie ends , we do n't even get to see the teacher get killed or what happens to the girl , let alone an explanation why Jigsaw came to life or how he cleaned himself off after being burned . This movie is so shameful it has too be seen , it is only 71 minutes so it is a small part of your day ; For the memories of a lifetime , Jigsaw , Jigsaw , Jigsaw . Thank you Total Recall ! The Judge has ruled , watch Jigsaw only if your plans of severing off your genitals seems played out .
This is only somewhat attractive for fans of `` bad movie '' entertainment . It is more worthwhile for students of 1970 's pop culture : the fashions , the furniture , the attitudes , and that great `` women 's lib '' moment of the early 1970 's , when it was still fresh and novel for a self-employed , independent woman to exist . `` Superchick '' ( Joyce Jillson ) had a monetarily rewarding if stultifying career ( after all , what is a flight attendant but a waitress at 30,000 feet -- that goes for the male ones too ) , she slept around with multiple men , could protect herself and others ( with karate ) and was n't tied down to anything . This is the kind of emancipated woman that scared the juices out of anti-feminists , those retrograde idiots who believe that no woman is complete without a husband . The `` sexy stewardess '' was a potent archetype of the late 1960 's to 1970 's , ( geez , even on `` The Partridge Family , '' I remember swinging bachelor Ruben Kincaid constantly hooking up with stewardesses ) and from that point of view , this silly film is an important pop culture time capsule of the pre-AIDS , free-love , women 's lib , swinging Seventies . The plot is quite awful though . And for those cavemen in the audience , there are few bare breasts to look at .
Veteran director and producer Allan Dwan , whose huge string of films includes both the utterly forgettable and the recurrently shown ( for example , John Wayne in `` Sands of Iwo Jima '' ) tried his hand at a big musical with `` I Dream of Jeanie . '' Harnessing a lead cast of singers with little past film experience and , as it turned out , virtually no future , he spun a fictional and in no small part offensive story about the great American songwriter , Stephen Foster . Bill Shirley is the young , lovestruck Foster whose kindness to slaves includes giving the money saved for an engagement ring to pay the hospital cost for an injured little black boy . His intended is Inez McDowell ( Muriel Lawrence ) whose pesky younger sister , Jeanie ( Eileen Christy ) , is slowly realizing she 's in love with the nearly impecunious song-smith . Foster is in love with Inez who is revolted by the composer 's Number 1 on the Levee Hit Parade Tune , `` O Susannah . '' Enter minstrel Edwin P.Christy ( Ray Middleton ) to help launch the profit-making phase of Foster 's career . This is , by the musical-film standards of the early Fifties , a big production . The sets are lavish in that special Hollywood way that portrayed fakes with all the trimmings . The singers are n't half bad and the Foster songs are almost impossible to ruin . But this is also a literal whitewash of the antebellum South . The biggest number features black-face for all on stage , an historical anomaly and a contemporary piece of unthinking racism . Were these portrayals of blacks anywhere near reality , the abolitionists would be rightly condemned for interfering with so beneficent an institution . `` I Dream of Jeanie '' apparently sank into the studio 's vault with barely a death whisper . Now revived by Alpha Video for a mere $ 4.99 it 's a period piece with charming songs and repulsive sentimentalizing about the victims of America 's great crime , slavery . This was what Hollywood was putting out two years before Brown v. Board of Education . Must have warmed the hearts of some moviegoers who wore their bed linen to the theater .
A truly , truly dire Canadian-German co-production , the ever-wonderful Rosanna Arquette plays an actress whose teenage daughter redefines the term `` problem child '' - a few uears prior to the `` action '' the child murdered her father , and mum took the fall for the offspring . Now she 's moved up to the Northwest US to start over , but her child still has a problem in that she 's devoted to her mother . So devoted in fact that she kills anyone who might be seen as a threat to their bond . Unfortunately Mandy Schaeffer ( as the daughter ) murders more than people - she delivers such a terrible performance that she also wipes out the movie , though the incoherent script , useless direction and appalling music ( check out the saxophone the first time she displays her bikini-clad bod ) do n't help any ; we 're supposed to find her sexy and scary , but she fails on both counts . Almost completely unalluring and not even bad enough to be amusing ( not to mention the fact that Arquette and Schaeffer do n't really convince as mother and daughter ) , all condolences to Miss Arquette and Jurgen Prochnow , both of whom are worthy of far more than this , and both of whom ( particularly Rosanna ) are the only sane reasons for anyone to sit through this farrago . One of the production companies is called Quality International Films - not since the three-hour `` Love , Lies And Murder '' ( from Two Short Productions ) has there been such a `` You must be joking '' credit .
Funny how many of the people who say this is far superior to Romero 's version tend to be very young ( judging by their other posts ) . What we have here is a slick , action packed , gory and `` Whoopee '' filled 2 hour MTV video . Frantic editing , pop-video camera work , `` cool '' music blah blah blah Actually it ai n't bad compared to other recent remakes ( Chainsaw Massacre was a total disaster ) ... pretty good acting all round , totally predictable in the `` who will die next '' stakes and a total cash in on the Dawn Of The Dead name that will generate plenty of revenue alone by fans of the original who will go and see it out of curiosity ... Do n't remakes of classics get on your nerves ? Can they REALLY not come up with something original ? Why remake Dawn Of The Dead ? The things that made the original special ( the middle segment kids think is so boring is supposed to be slow to show how when you get everything you ever wanted you still ai n't happy ) are totally missing . This is an action flick , plain and simple . The faster the better . If you are into action flicks ( and as this , the 2004 version is well done ) fair enough , but for anyone who likes a little substance to their films ... get ready to sigh ( again ) ... Watch the cinemas over the next few years as we get The Godfather series remade by whoever the most fashionable Pop director is at the moment , and Star Wars remade , with all the kids saying how the new version is miles better cos the old version is slow and boring and holds a camera shot for more than 5 seconds ... Not bad , but in 10 years they will still be discussing the Romero version , not this pap
A group of human looking aliens going to Earth to eat crash land on a planet of prehistoric beasts instead where they all eat physcedelic mushrooms and act retarded . Padded with footage from `` Planet of the Dinosuars '' and horrible jokes this is definitely one to miss . The acting is atrocious as well , and while this is n't as bad as `` Chickboxer '' ( what movie can be ? ) This is still pretty awful repugnant stuff . It 's 90 minute running time feels like an eternity and you will likely be cursing life so do yourself a huge favor and just move on , skip this crappy film , there 's nothing to see here . The film-makers try to resell this turd as a MST3K style making fun of the movie they made a decade before , and it works to an extent it 's still nothing that watchable though , Ariauna Albright is hot , but Lilith Stabs has a pretty unattractive speaking voice . My Grade : D- DVD Extras : Joke commentary , 17 Behind the scenes featurette ; 7 minute Into the black featurette ; Jessica Mills reporting ; Stills gallery ; and original trailer
this is seriously one of the worst movies i have ever seen . i love Japanese movies , and i think another film by the same director , electric dragon 80,000 v , is a masterpiece . i really wanted to like this movie - asano is a terrific actor and the storyline was immensely appealing . but i could n't find anything entertaining about it . the movie takes forever for nothing to happen . and the effects the director used - like the constant percussion and the exorbitant use of slow motion - merely added to my growing annoyance at the fact that the plot was so mind-bogglingly slow and the actors were heinously overacting . a lot of the boredom was a result of extraneous additions that were completely unnecessary - like an hour spent on asano going around slicing buddha statues and proclaiming how he does n't worship anything . this added nothing to the plot . a fellow Japanese film buff and i were both checking the time constantly . we could n't believe this film was as terrible as it was . and the finale was awful . i thought the director would at least attempt to reward the viewer for managing to sit through this , but sadly i was mistaken .
This is one of the worst films I 've seen in years ! ! You could randomly pluck 5 people off the streets and they could act better than anyone in this film . Absolute waste of time watching it . I only gave it a 2 as I like gory films but this is just plain rubbish . The acting ( and I use that term VERY loosely ) is abysmal , someone please tell me that the 5 main actors in this were making their first ever film ? ? Do n't waste your time watching this . Hostel was a better film by some way . I can not believe that someone has spent money making this , I hope for the producers sake it only cost $ 50,000 to make - it looks like a school project , made by kids who have n't got a clue . Did this even make it to the cinema ? ?
F*ck Me ! I 've seen some incredibly horrific movies in my time but this takes the p*ss ! Honestly I ca n't express in words how bad this film actually is . Besides the plot that is n't really there , the comically crap acting , the hilariously dreadful excuses for zombies ; You know what , I could go on all day . Every little thing in this film is either stupid , pointless , crap or embarrassing . I express to anyone who wants to watch this movie ... do n't ! I 'm ashamed to say , I have this on my rack . It 's hidden away right at the god damn bottom of the huge pile . I could n't even give this horse-sh*t excuse for a film away . That 's how bad it is .
Only on a very rare occasion does an episode of the x-files fail to generate any excitement or does the episode contain anything which is just totally boring to watch.A detective and his former partner both die in unexplained circumstances.The deaths are linked to the presence of a little girl who was there when the deaths took place.Mulder has devised a theory that a policeman murdered by his colleagues has come back reincarnated as the little girl and is exacting revenge.Now for the bizarre bit.The little girl has no connection at all and seems to just a random person chosen as the reincarnation.I think this was slightly lazy writing by the writers and this episode ranks as one of the worst in x-files history !
This film is pure 'Hollywood hokum ' . It is based upon a novel called 'Not Too Narrow Not Too Deep ' by Richard Sale , which may or may not have been interesting ; it would take research to find out ! The story in the film takes for granted many incidents and much background which obviously existed in the novel but are nowhere to be seen in the film , so either the film was savagely cut or the screenplay was a mess from the start . There is not one millisecond in this film which is remotely realistic , either in terms of events or characters . It is pure Hollywood fantasy in every respect . Two well-known actors , Paul Lukas and Peter Lorre , are so under-used and wasted that there was no point in their being in the film at all . They must have been thrown into the mix in the manner in which one adds a sprinkling of chopped chives to an omelette , hoping that the flavour will be enhanced . The film is a ponderous attempt at producing a 'morality tale ' , and is so corny that it is laughable . The story concerns some hardened criminals imprisoned in French Guiana who want to escape from their French colonial prison through a jungle ( very much a Hollywood set jungle , with a rubber snake ) . Naturally there has to be a woman in the story , so Joan Crawford hams it up as a down-on-her-luck tramp who for some reason becomes irresistible to Clark Gable , one of the escaped criminals . Crawford in escaping through the jungle wears high-heeled shoes and keeps her makeup fresh . Gable flirts and grimaces and makes mawkish expressions , crinkling his brow as was his wont , smirking and looking suggestively at everybody , which was his manner of acting . It is hard to treat such a character as a hardened criminal when he is always trying so hard to be Clark Gable that surely he has n't any time left to be a thief . ( Attention-seekers are by definition too busy to steal and unsuited to a task which requires that people NOT see them . ) The whole escapade is so ridiculous that it can only be regarded as light entertainment . An attempt at religiosity and 'depth ' is made by injecting into the story a mysterious 'angel of mercy ' who voluntarily walks into the prison and pretends to be an inmate . He helps in the escape and accompanies all the criminals and ministers to their various deaths , helping them to find 'peace ' in their last gasps . This character is played very well by Ian Hunter , who retains throughout a convincing air of secret knowledge , smiles enigmatically , makes cryptic prophetic remarks , and has a small spot trained on his face to give him a heavenly glow . The theme is meant to be redemption . You might call it the Donald Duck version of 'Hollywood Goes Moral and Gets Heavy ' . For real depth , Hitchcock 's 'I Confess ' of 1953 shows how it should really be done . By contrast , this piece of trivial nonsense shows just how bare the cupboards of Meaning were in Tinsel Town , and that when they went rummaging for something that might mean something , all they could come up with was , you guessed it , more tinsel .
To be brutally honest ... I LOVED watching Severed . That 's why I gave it a 1/10 stars because of its starkly unimaginative story/filming/acting/everything . This film was a RIOT to watch . If you enjoy watching bad films in order to poke fun at them , you will really get a kick out of Severed . The story really does n't matter , it involves some guy who 's bald and has a sword and goes around beheading random people . But he has a supernatural twist ... nobody ever sees him do it . Even when , in one very memorable scene , he walks into a jampacked night club and whacks off some girl 's noodle and nobody sees it . Severed does n't merely look like it was filmed on video- it WAS filmed on someone 's home camcorder . The filmmakers had knowledge of lighting ( very thin knowledge ) and composition actually holds together in some scenes . But mostly you ca n't hear the actors ... you ca n't understand what they 're doing , and you laugh when the next vicitm gets his pumpkin detatched from his body . Go and rent this movie . Support films like this- they are a hoot and a hollar !
I have to admit , I do n't remember much about the characters or the story , though I 'm not sure there was one , I was soooo irritated by this movie that I had a bit of a hard time focusing on it . How can you name a movie `` Keys to Tulsa '' and then film it in Texas ? The flat desert country around Arlington ( I think that was the location ) in no way resembles the green rolling hills around Tulsa , and a celebrity in Tulsa would have a much nicer neighborhood to live in . Obviously no one in the movie has EVER BEEN to Tulsa or else they would have realized how nothing in the movie even resembled it . Had n't anyone at least seen Rumblefish or The Outsiders ? I know this sounds picky but I ca n't help it . I watched this because I love James Spader and I usually find Eric Stotz interesting . But even these two intriguing actors could not liven up this meandering , and mean story of self-involved people who are NOT IN TULSA ! ! I 'm sorry , it ca n't be more expensive to film in Oklahoma . What if `` To Live and Die in LA '' had been shot in Toronto ? Would that suck ? Well so does this .
I was so disturbed by the real footage at the beginning of the film that I felt sick to my stomach and ended up shutting the movie off . How any can give this film more than a rating of 1 baffles me . I know that the intent of the movie is to shock , but showing actual footage of a dog that had been skinned alive ( holding back vomit as I type ) - PLEASE ! I shut it off after the scene with the decomposing baby . I had had my eyes covered most of the time up to that point . No wonder this movie was found at the bargain bin in HMV . I really have no desire to see any other movie by this Uwe person . Anyone who enjoyed this needs therapy . Period .
`` The Bat People '' is a proud resident of the IMDb Bottom 100 . Every once and a while the movie suddenly vanishes from the infamous list , depending on whether there are new movies with Paris Hilton in the lead or documentaries about American Idol stars , but it always reliably returns sooner or later . And why ? Because , unlike the majority of crap in that list , `` The Bat People '' is a legitimate bad film and it deserves to be on there regardless of any media influences or internet buzz ! This nearly is n't the worst film ever made , since the basic concept definitely has a certain charm and ingenuity , but it 's still indescribably difficult to sit through the whole thing . The script is incredibly boring , with absolutely unnecessary padding footage and gigantic gaps in continuity , and yet the main characters still remain total strangers throughout the entire film . Other than a sensible screenplay , the film also lacks spectacular killing sequences and the make-up effects – although courtesy of a young Stan Winston – are ludicrously inept and remain largely unseen until the end of the film . The film 's title is inaccurate , as `` people '' refers to a number in plural whereas the story actually just revolves on one Bat Person . Much more than Bruce Wayne , the real Batman plays in this movie and he as well has a genuine Bat-cave and a Bat-mobile ( a stolen ambulance ) ! The plot introduces a young couple on their honeymoon-weekend exploring caves . They wander off from a guided tour group and he gets bitten by a bat whilst trying to protect his wife from the animal 's vicious attack . Worried that he might be infected with rabies , he undergoes an intense treatment at the local hospital , but still this does n't prevent him from slowly transforming into a bloodthirsty bat creature . He kills random people at night and toys around with the suspicious police sergeant whilst his loving wife is still vastly convinced the awkward behavior is exclusively due to allergic reactions to the rabies treatment . Sure , honey ! The script never explains why a bat would attack people and how come John always changes back into a normal human being at the dawn of a new day instead of gradually turning into a permanent state of bat-guano . So basically , `` The Bat People '' is a variation on the good old werewolf-theme , but obviously not a very interesting one . The concept showed a lot of potential , but somehow the sub plots center on whiny drunks and perverted Sheriffs instead of on ghastly monsters . Some of the settings and exterior filming locations look impressive , the misfit song playing during the credits is strangely catchy , there 's a nice bit of gore during the climax ( finally ! ) and main actress Marianne McAndrew is ravishing to look at ( though not to listen to ) . This truly bad and boring film 's current listing in the bottom 100 is spot number 80 , and personally I hope it sticks somewhere in that region . The list simply would n't feel and traditional without `` The Bat People '' .
Richard Pryor 's early 80s running down the street on fire incident must have affected him somehow . In his stand up , he jokes about it getting great laughs . It seemed to have done something involving the projects he chose . The Toy is about the lamest he ever chose , aside from I guess Another You . A movie where a white man buys his son a black man ? Nice little bit of underlying political incorrectness before thee was such a thing . It 's seeing Richard getting all sentimental that made me finally walk out before the end . I wanted to see Pryor get even with this brat , instead it becomes the misunderstood kid nauseum ! At least Gleason had his moments . Ignore this and watch Pryor with Gene Wilder or any of his '70s stuff . This is a waste of any movie watcher 's time !
Monster is a mind numbingly awful movie about an evil American concrete factory ( are there any else in Hollywood ? ) polluting the waters of the small Colombian town of Chimayo somehow creating a catfish-like beast with a predilection for lamb and loose women . James Mitchum is Bill Travis the man who is sent down to Chimayo by his foul-mouthed boss Barnes who himself ca n't keep his hands off of his secretary 's rear to get to the bottom ( pun intended ) of the story . While in Chimayo Bill must contend with an annoying reporter who apparently broadcasts all of her stories in perfect English directly back to America . I guess in the seventies there was a market for news from small South American towns . There is also a radical named Sanchez that wishes to sabotage the factory for polluting the water which , by the way , also supplies the town with jobs for the locals , but why let cold hearted economics get in the way of touchy-feely enviro-marxism . Pete the factory boss is unwittingly aided by the monster when he has sex with his ex-girlfriend on the beach , tells her that he is seeing the mayor 's daughter Juanita and it 's over between them , then she is promptly eaten that night . A little side action without the evidence . My hat is off to you Sir . John Carradine rounds out the cast as a priest that believes the monster is sent by God to punish sinners . You can see the contempt he has for being in this movie in his face . Might as well filmed him running to the local currency exchange to see if his check did n't bounce . Supposedly based on a true story , so much so they say it twice in the opening credits , this film is awful on all fronts . Filming began in 1971 and was abandoned until eight years later when Kenneth Hartford put his foot on the throat of Monster by adding his two annoying children as new characters , even putting his daughter , Andrea in top billing with Mitchum and Carradine . The sound quality is nonexistent and most of the scenes seem as if someone smeared tar over the camera before filming . This is made even more tedious during the many scenes done at night . The monster itself is laughable as it rears its ugly rubbery head for the anticlimactic ending . James Mitchum along with his brother Chris are proof that nepotism in the acting industry needs to be curtailed . Utterly unwatchable dreck . Shame on you John Carradine .
86 wasted minutes of my life . I fell asleep the first time I attempted watching it , and I must say I 'm not one to ever fall asleep in the cinema . I have never seen such a pointless plot acted in such a stilted and forced manner , and can only surmise that the actors were as hard-up as the protagonist writer allegedly was in the film itself . Everything in this dire adaptation is overacted . And if it is n't the wooden acting , almost as though you can see the teleprompter , then the set itself , which is overlit and interfering in utterly unnecessary ways , and overdressed to an unimaginable extent , is enough to put you off the entire farce . As to the supposed shock of a detective under disguise , any person who does not see that - as well as the entire rest of this ludicrous plot - telegraphed light years in advance , should check their eyesight immediately . Bad acting , and from two very decent actors , coupled with the hyper-coddled Branagh trademark overdirection , is enough to make you want to use real bullets rather than blanks yourself . On top of it all , there is a completely risible undertone of homoerotica in this , heightened towards the end of it . All I can hope for is that this was such a flop that people sha n't try to emulate this level of cinema ever again .
I was hoping that this film was going to be at least watchable . The plot was weak to say the least . I was expecting a lot more considering the cast line up ( I wonder if any of them will include this on their CVs ? ) . At least I did n't pay to rent it . The best part of the film is definitely Dani Behr , but the rest of the film is complete and utter PANTS .
What is happening to ITV Drama . First , `` Losing Gemma '' quite simply the worst TV drama I have seen in years , and now `` Perfect Parents '' a complete shambles from start to finish . Whoever is responsible for commissioning this drivel should be receiving there P45 by special delivery . In most Drama/Thrillers , a requirement to suspend certain levels of belief is necessary so that the the plot line can develop , but `` Perfect Parents '' took this to a new level , I suspended so much belief by the end of this nonsense I felt I had been force fed on a lorry load of `` Magic mushrooms '' , it was like the scriptwriters had decided to try and create a `` Drama by numbers '' involving some serious issues - Religion , Education , Greed , Fear , Murder , Paedophillia the only trouble was as The great Eric Morecambe once said when playing a piano , `` I 'm playing all the right Notes , just not necessarily in the correct order '' . For your next Script guys , I suggest you try reading a few more books on script development than `` Script writing For Dummies '' . Due to the ridiculous Script and the utter lack of Tension in the Direction , the acting was suitably low key , not the fault of the actors as the cast was top notch . But I suggest that all of the actors involved in this sorry piece of drama should instruct their agents the next time the Postman attempts to deliver a script from ITV drama Department , make sure the letterbox is firmly nailed shut ! !
I have to admit that Over Her Dead Body actually was n't as bad as I was expecting , my mom wanted to see it , so I rented it . I figured just to go ahead and see the horror before my eyes , but actually this was n't too bad . I was just expecting this horrific movie , but it seems like the writers meant no harm , but the casting of Eva Longoria ( Parker , sorry ) , she seems a little off set for the movie . I think I may have found it to be a little better without her , just she does annoy me . But Paul Rudd and Lake Bell had a decent chemistry that made the film somewhat likable . But you have to admit , there was no point to this movie , it was one of those quick paychecks for the actor type of thing . The movie could 've been funnier if someone had really paid attention to it and had a better cast . Henry just lost his bride to be , Kate , who was killed by an ice sculpture on their wedding day . But when his sister takes him to a psychic , Ashley , Henry falls for her , but Kate is haunting her from beyond the grave . Kate is jealous and does n't want Henry to move on so quickly and she will make sure that Ashley does n't get him by torturing her day and night with her rambles , believe me , with Kate 's voice , that 's scary . Over Her Dead Body is an alright movie , not sure if it 's worth the money , but I 'd give it a rental for you if you want to see it or are curious . Eva Longoria just does n't have enough star power to make the film work , no offense to those who love her , she just belongs on the small screen over the silver screen . Not to mention the character of Ashley , she seems still not too likable with everything she pulls , or her `` gay '' friend , Dan , just again , not really likable . Just with some re-writing and proper attention , this film could have been better , but instead we get the average predictable romantic comedy that will leave with with an empty feeling . 4/10
I was expecting a little something from `` K-911 '' , I mean it did look like a cute movie that I could get into . I always did love the dog comedy movies . But it looked like it was supposed to be Jame 's movie , not Jerry Lee 's . The plot was pretty lame and the two love interests really did n't have chemistry to begin with . Not to mention that James seemed to have a total sexist view in the movie despite the fact the writer was n't going in that direction . James just really ticked me off for more than half the film . The dogs were the true stars and that 's pretty sad that they out shined the actors . So , I 'm glad it 's not just me on IMDb who agrees that this was a pretty stupid movie . But hopefully , James will realize it was his brother Jim who was the talented one , no offense , but not everyone can be their star sibling . Do n't you wish Ashlee Simpson would take that same advice ? : D 3/10
Even if one did n't realize that Sellers was in poor health at the time of filming and passed away before the film 's release , THE FIENDISH PLOT OF DR. FU MANCHU would be painful viewing . It is supposedly a lampoon of Sax Rohmer 's famous Oriental villain but it lacks any focus . The potential for satirical commentary on the anti-Oriental overtones of Rohmer 's concept are ignored . Indeed , the movie employs racist insults . There are hardly any actual jokes or gags , just mostly actors behaving idiotically and spouting dreary lines . It is especially distressing to see Sid Caesar forced to spout curses and racial slurs for attempted laughs . Most of the other actors embarrass themselves as well . And then there 's Peter Sellers . He plays the dual roles of the sinister Fu Manchu , who is trying to concoct a formula to regain his youth and his stalwart British foe Nayland Smith . Sellers is n't one hundred per cent bad ; he conveys a quirky warmth as Smith when he discusses his fetishistic attachment to his lawn mower and he 's oddly moving as Manchu when he expresses his love for English music hall entertainment . But most of the time , he plays both roles with a weary grimness , thus further sabotaging any comical possibilities . Sellers ' routines where he revitalizes his fading strength with electric shocks are particularly excruciating ; he seems too convincingly agonized to be funny . A few genuinely witty lines , an apt slapstick bit by Burt Kwouk ( Cato in the PINK PANTHER films ) as one of Manchu 's minions , and Helen Mirren 's amusing musical numbers can not salvage this mess . If anyone wants to understand why Peter Sellers is considered a comedic genius , they wo n't learn anything from THE FIENDISH PLOT OF DR. FU MANCHU .
This movie is so bad it 's funny . It stars Scott Backula as some coach , but that 's not important , what is important is the large black fellow who plays 1st base . First off he has to be at least 75 years old , yet still plays minor league baseball , second he starts out the movie in the outfield despite not being able to walk , let alone run . Coach Backula brilliantly moves him to first citing the fact that when he attempts to run he stays in the same place for too long a period of time . Backula shows more brilliant coaching strategy in the end of the film , ( SPOILER ) , he tells his star player `` downtown '' to hit a home run , clearly `` downtown '' viewed this as a good move . He hit the home run and won the game for his team , a minor league squad playing the Twins who were the class of the majors in the movie . Now if only Tony Muser , manager of the Royals , would be as smart a coach as Backula and tell his players to simply hit a home run in every at bat , the Royals would never end an inning let alone lose a game .
No , I have n't read the Stephen King novel `` Thinner , '' but I choked down the film version . Horror movies are an acquired taste . Regular movies give an audience a hero to applaud as he strives to achieve a goal . In horror movies , audiences are invited to savor the demise of characters . In director Tom Holland 's low-fat but tasteless revenge chiller `` Thinner , '' nobody wins and everybody deserves the bite that is put on them . Gluttonous New England attorney Billy Halleck ( Robert John Burke of `` Robocop 3 '' ) has a weight problem . Although he rocks the bathroom scales at 300 pounds , he appears happily married to a trim , delectable wife , Heidi ( Lucinda Jenney of `` G.I . Jane '' ) with a yeasty teenage daughter . Fat does n't mean stupid here . Halleck displays his sagacity in court when he wins an acquittal verdict for sleazy Mafia chieftain Richie Ginelli ( Joe Mantegna of `` House of Games '' ) . Driving home from a victory feast , Billy hits an old gypsy woman crossing the street and kills her . A cover-up occurs , and Halleck 's friends get him out of the soup . The disgruntled gypsy father Taduz Lemke ( Michael Constantine of `` Skidoo '' ) retaliates with a curse on the corpulent lawyer and the two town officials that exonerated him . Suddenly , Halleck finds himself shedding pounds no matter how much chow he chomps . When he begs the vengeful Gypsy to lift the curse , the old man refuses . Desperately , Halleck resorts to Richie . While Halleck struggles with the gypsies to remove the hex , he learns that his loyal wife has turned his attentions to the town 's hotshot doctor . `` Thinner '' qualifies as not only laughably inept horror flick , but the filmmakers also rely on stereotypes of men and women . Tom Holland , who directed `` Child 's Play '' ( 1988 ) , and scenarist Michael McDowell , have served up such a slipshod script that you can not relish watching Billy get his just dessert and shrivel up . `` Thinner '' boasts few shocks and fewer surprises . The filmmakers may have regurgitated King 's novel , but they have filleted whatever sense of horror and humor it contained . Holland and McDowell introduce characters , such as the Mafioso , then inexplicably let them off the hook . One minor character shows up long enough to die and have a chicken 's head stuffed in his mouth . The stereotypical behavior of the characters may offend audiences , too . `` Thinner '' depicts women as oversexed vixens and men as swine . When Halleck sneaks home from a clinic , he finds his doctor 's sports car parked at his house . His suspicions ripen into jealousy and he cooks up a scheme to get the curse transferred to this wife . Even the premature ending lacks any satirical flavor . Oscar-winning special effects wizard Greg Cannom of `` Van Helsing '' and make-up artist Bob Laden do a fabulous job beefing up actor Robert John Burke to look obese . They succeed , too , in making him shrivel . Only die-hard Stephen King fans will be able to stomach this misogynistic gooledyspook .
Melissa Sagemiller , Wes Bentley , Eliza Dushku and Casey Affleck play young students at Middleton College in the town of Middleton.The four teenagers form two love triangles.One night during an ominous full moon they drive and argue along a slippery and twisting mountain road.Not looking properly they careen into another car and one or more of them are killed.The ghostly nightmare begins ... Pretty lousy and politically correct horror flick without gore and nudity.It 's obviously influenced by `` Carnival of Souls '' .The cinematography is decent , unfortunately there is zero suspense.4 out of 10-just another instantly forgettable teeny-bopper trash .
I wish I could give this movie a zero out of ten . Before going to this movie the day after it came out , I came on IMDb to check out the comments . A comment called the movie predictable and cheesy with terrible dialog . I never go by other people 's opinions , so I wasted seven dollars for this crap movie . It had to be one of the WORST movies I 've ever seen . The person who wrote the script should be pushed off a cliff . Since when do scary movies have sappy scenes ? I swear , I 'm amazed there were n't any GROUP HUG ^-^ moments . I think I jumped . Once . And that 's because I zoned out , thinking about my research paper for English . The clichéd , birds/cat popping out of nowhere thing when you THOUGHT something was gon na happen . And the characters were STUPID . My friend and I almost DIED laughing when the alarm went off and the main character said , `` I have to get my mom 's shawl ! ! ! '' You . Idiot . Screw the shawl ! Safety is just a few steps away , but NO , my mom 's shawl ( that did n't match the dress By the way ) is WAYYYY more important than my health and safety . And to top it all off , they take her BACK to her house , knowing that the killer knew where she lived . God . My friend and I also predicted the ENTIRE movie . And not just the , I bet he 's hiding under the bed , moments . It was the , `` HE stole the bellhop 's clothes and sneaked out of the hotel '' and `` It 's the detective coming down the hallway , not the killer ! '' moments . Movies should NEVER be THIS predictable . Disney movies are n't even this predictable . I 'm gon na complete my rant now by saying , this was a terrible movie . I 'm glad I went to see it in theaters so I would n't buy it for $ 15.00 and then hate it . It was just bad . It would 've been better if only one thing would 've happened . If , after being shot by the detective , the killer would have fallen down in the same position he got shot in . Knife in hand , falling and stabbing the girl on his way down . Oh , how lovely that would 've been . Do n't waste your time or money . Go see a GOOD movie .
It 's hard to tell if Noonan and Marshall are trying to ape Abbott & Costello , Martin & Lewis , Curley & Larry , or some other comedy team , but whoever it was they were trying to imitate , they failed miserably . There 's barely one weak laugh in this whole incredibly stupid picture . Noonan ( who helped write the alleged `` script '' ) and Marshall have no chemistry whatsoever ; Marshall seems to be trying for a Dean Martin type of devil-may-care coolness , but he does n't come even remotely close . God knows what Noonan thought he was doing , but being funny sure was n't it . He seems to think that flapping his arms and legs a lot and staring dumbly at everyone and everything is the height of screen comedy ; maybe for him it is , but not for the audience . I remember seeing this in the theaters when it came out . It was on the bottom of a double bill with a three-year-old Jeff Chandler western ( `` Pillars of the Sky , '' which was pretty good ) and a Three Stooges short ( `` Sappy Bullfighters '' , which was n't ) , and about 20 minutes into this thing all the kids in the audience were throwing stuff at the screen ; it was so staggeringly unfunny that it did n't even measure up to the worst of the Three Stooges shorts . I stayed around for the end of it ( not that I wanted to , but my folks were n't due to pick me up until after the movie ended ) , and by the time this mess was over , I was the only one in the theater . I saw it again about 15 or so years ago on cable one night , and stuck around to watch it to see if it was as bad as I remembered . It was worse . The only thing it had going for it was Julie Newmar , who was as smokingly hot as ever ; other than her , this thing has absolutely NOTHING to recommend it . The two of them also play Japanese soldiers , and the way they do it makes Jerry Lewis ' infamous playing of Japanese characters as thick-lensed , buck-toothed , gibbering mental defectives look benign by comparison . Marshall went on to host `` Hollywood Squares , '' and Noonan kept trying his hand at making movies , but most of them were almost as bad as this . Not quite , though , as I do n't think ANYTHING could be quite as bad as this . A truly pathetic waste of film . Do n't waste your time on it .
OK , I love bad horror . I especially love horror bad enough to make fun of . Demonicus , or House of the Dead - those were bad enough to make fun of . Severed was not . It was worse . ( spoilers - who cares ? ) My friend and I sat through the entire film , and I have a number of comments , both in the `` this sucks '' style and in the realm of actual critiques . Plot ( sort of ) - There 's a guy in this city ( which is possibly Seattle , see comment below ) who is running around and cutting off heads . He 's been doing this for over a year ( I 'm not going back to get exact numbers - thank you VERY much ) , possibly two or three years . One head a week . And the police are JUST NOW calling in a `` specialist '' ( who ONCE refers to himself as a psychic , but that never comes up again ) . Schya right ! Feds take over after , what , THREE connected homicides ? After NEARLY A HUNDRED SIMILAR KILLINGS we 'd be under freaking martial law ! ! ! ! ! Anyway , this `` specialist '' consults the voodoo chick who the police have been ignoring the entire time , and the two of them come to the conclusion that it 's Baron Samedi , a voodoo spirit , who is cutting off heads to gain enough power to make himself a body ( and then presumably take over the world - or possibly just go to Disneyland ) . Um . Setting - where IS this happening ? Well , if you 're not from Seattle , you might not realize that at the bar/rave ( occupied by about ten of the movie staff and their family members ) , there 's a poster for a local radio station , and that in the highly-entertaining , `` Pulp Fiction '' esqe dialog ( as IF ) between the two cops ( yes , the ones who get their heads cut off about 15 minutes into the flick ) they discuss `` the new stadium '' which may still have been an issue when this movie was made . Being from Seattle , I apologize on the movie 's behalf and hang my head in shame . OK , here 's where it gets really critical - being a horror movie writer ( not published , do n't go looking for my name in the IMDb ) , I do research . Lots of research . And unlike the writers of this movie , I know that Baron Samedi - while a Voudon Loa ( spirit ) who guards the graveyards and has traditionally been associated ( by various Christian oppressors ) with `` Satan '' - is actually a `` Loki '' -like trickster god . In other words , he does n't cut off heads . Besides , a major part of the Voudoun religion is that Baron Samedi can have a body whenever he wants . Their religious ceremonies center around the possession of various members of the congregation by the loa . Not to mention , if he 's already possessed someone , why make a NEW body ? Also , if Baron Samedi GOT a body , he would n't go around cutting off heads , he 'd get some good rum and cigars and par-TAY ! ! ! In summary , the only thing they did get ( surprisingly ) right is that in the completely unnecessary Tarot card reading ( used only to show that the voodoo chick is `` spooky '' ) they did n't screw up the interpretations of the cards the way most movies do . Again , I 've done research . ( Anyone remember the old late-night ad for phone-in tarot readings - `` The lovers - you will soon fall madly in love ... '' and all that nonsense ? ) If you made it this far through my comments , I congratulate you . And I 'm sorry again . I 'll be more sorry if you feel the need to watch the film on account of me , so please do n't .
A slow , tedious , and one dimensional movie ! Good casting with clichéd dialogue , boring story line , and soulless direction from Mr Marshal ! The conventional and predictable story of the most famous form of prostitution from the Asian continent , lacks heart , new insights , and depth . The lead character looks out of place due to her tiny phisique and phony looking contact lenses . The lexicon employed by the geishas sounds forced and a bit too sophisticated for their limited exposure in the ways of education . The story goes on and on for hours trying to convince you this little , boring , flat chested Asian girl is the ultimate Geisha , they actually say in the movie `` She is destined to become a legend '' i say hardy the case ! The movie is just plain boring , it is beautiful to look at , it has a very few interesting moments as many as you may find by going out for cigarretes . Basically , if you do n't believe the messenger you wont believe the message , and this girl did n't fill the shoe ! Borin , boring , skip it !
A film so insecure the creaters perhaps hoped to milk an original film noir classic title , `` Farewell My Lovely '' , thinking the gullible would assume it a remake . The characters are so foul and unappealing that it deserved its cold reception when first released . Time only adds to it its absurdity . Having none of the guile , cinematography , desperation or despair of classic noir it relied instead on a convoluted and senseless crime plot that would have easily resulted in several arrests within hours . As if that were n't enough it threw in an utterly sexless attempt at erotica in which at least one of the participants had n't bothered to bathe in several days . This only made this mess all the more painful to watch . Find a good classic forties or fifties film noir instead of wasting two hours on this failure .
I just watched The Convent for the second time . I had enjoyed it previously and figured it would make for a good drunken Friday night film , some gore , some style , bit of humour and suchlike . I was saddened to find that I could no longer appreciate it much . It seemed like someone had set out to revisit cheeseball epics like Night of the Demons for a modern audience but lost the things that made the original worthwhile . For the record I 'm not even a huge fan of Night of the Demons , but there were some things I really dug about it . The Convent does the cheese but the not the goodness so much . Apart from the main girl ( likeable performance from Joanna Canton ) , the goth girl and a sweet cameo from Adrienne Barbeau pretty much all the characters were excruciatingly unlikeable , festering at the absolute lowest levels of moronic , offensive jockhood . The film is then gravely hampered by the complete lack of gratuitous nudity which means that , given the awful dialogue , it is difficult to watch the characters and harder to appreciate the good points of the film . The evil nuns are original in design and get lots of good scenes , though not scary their certainly kinda cool , and the film also fields a fair amount of neat gore . Towards the end , when Adrienne Barbeau is on the scene the film becomes quite entertaining cause all the obnoxious people are dead and its an evil nun bashing frenzy . The stylised direction also occasionally yields good results , although sometimes the camera just moves too fast . All in all , this was a film where for me the shining good points just ca n't make up for the things I hated . Those more fond of this kind of film may well enjoy it a lot more , but for me it was n't a good time .
This is a bigger budgeted film than usual for genre director Honda ( with more evidently elaborate sets ) – though the special effects still have that distinctive cheesiness to them ( witness the giant bats and rodents on display ) . It also utilizes a surprising number of American actors : Joseph Cotten playing the visionary scientist looks ill-at-ease and frail ( but , then , his character is supposed to be 204 years old ! ) , an innocuous Richard Jaeckel is the photographer hero while , as chief villains , we get Cesar Romero and Patricia Medina ( both essentially campy ) . As I 've often said , I grew up watching English-language films dubbed in Italian but hearing Hollywood actors in Japanese is another thing entirely ! LATITUDE ZERO feels like a juvenile version of a typical Jules Verne adventure , and is fairly entertaining on that level ; indeed , it 's preferable to Honda 's low-brow variations on the monsters-on-the-rampage formula because of the inherent quaint charm of the set-up in this case . The plot involves the kidnapping of a famous scientist by Romero – he was intended to establish himself in the underwater , technologically advanced city devised by Cotten ( to which the world 's foremost minds are being recruited ) . We 're treated to plenty of silly battles between the rival subs , but the most amusing scenes are certainly the raid on Romero 's cave – in fact , Cotten doing somersaults and fending off men in rubber suits ( via flames and laser emitted from his glove ! ) must surely count as the nadir of his acting career ; the other elder in the cast , Romero , is more in his element – after all , he had been The Joker in the BATMAN TV series and movie of the 1960s ! Cotten has a scantily-clad blonde physician on his team , and is assisted by a hulking Asian ; Romero , on the other hand , is flanked by an Oriental femme fatale – who , however , ends up getting a raw deal for her efforts ( the girl 's brain is eventually transplanted into a hybrid of lion and condor which is among the phoniest-looking creatures you ever saw ! ) . Apparently , a 2-disc set of this one from Media Blasters streets on this very day ! !
This mindless movie is a piece of crap and boring like the full house repetitions . For all the people who want to see a great , exciting and cool horror movie should n't even think about watching this bunch of mindless work . a F- in my opinion . I have one question , what were they thinking ? Let 's make a list : 1 ) bad script 2 ) bad script 3 ) bad script 4 ) bad acting 5 ) bad directing and last but not least a bad script . I mean I am not like grumping about every movie , but I was disappointed when I watched it . This movie should be banned into a box , locked and sunk down into the sea . So please do n't do something like this again , please , please , please ! ! ! !
I first saw this when I was around 7 . I remembered what I believed to be a vague outline of what took place . Turns out now , 15 years later , that I remembered everything with great accuracy because it seems the writers never got beyond making an outline to the story . There is no plot to this movie/cartoon . There is no character development , no back story , no character arcs , nothing . The good guys do things because they are good , while the bad guys do things solely because they are bad . One unintentionally hilarious part is when someone who you would think to be important dies and nobody cares in the least . They just shrug their shoulders and move on . There 's barely any dialogue either . If you cut out the fight scenes and the running scenes , you lose 70 % of the movie . Watch this because you want to see some good animation and for no other reason . Or if you like to look at scantily clad hot cartoon chicks ( or scantily clad hot cartoon dudes ) .
I bought this ( it was only $ 3 , ok ? ) under the title `` Grey Matter '' . The novelty of seeing Sherriff Roscoe in a non-DukesOfHazzard role intrigued me . As the other reviewers warned , it 's a pretty boring tale of a top secret government experiment gone awry . And yes , there are plenty of establishing shots , especially of a house with a pool in front of it . Some of the characters and interiors are so nondescript I guess the filmmakers worried we might forget who is who , so they keep tipping us off by first showing the outside of the buildings . It 's actually kinda funny . After awhile the pool shot feels like a tv channel 's station identification logo , reminding us that we are watching `` Grey Matter '' . I also enjoyed two bouts of name-calling . At one point an angry test subject taunts somebody in charge by calling her a `` Scientific b*tch ! '' . It 's just a very inadequate insult . Several scenes later a different subject lets off steam by muttering about that `` scientific b**tard ! '' . It just sounded very awkward to me . Someday this movie will disappear forever . Another decade from now it will likely be impossible to find any copies of it . Almost like it never happened .
A stuttering plot , uninteresting characters and sub-par ( to say the least ) dialogue plagues this TV production that could hardly have been interesting even with a billion dollar production budget . The characters are n't believable , in their motives , actions or their professed occupations . The plot reads like a bad Dungeons and Dragons ( TM ) hack but with plasma rifles and force fields . There are severe continuity issues and the degree of pointless interaction between the characters has this author , at least , wincing . Avoid it like the plague . Watch any episode of Dark Angel and you will have better acting , dialogue and plot . Yuck .
Have not watched kids films for some years , so I missed `` Here Come the Tigers '' when it first came out . ( Never even saw `` Bad News Bears '' even though in the '70s I worked for the guys who arranged financing for that movie , `` Warriors , '' `` Man Who Would Be King , '' and `` Rocky Horror Picture Show , '' among others . ) Now I like to check out old or small movies and find people who have gone on to great careers despite being in a less than great movie early on . Just minutes into this movie I could take no more and jumped to the end credits to see if there was a young actor in this movie who had gone on to bigger and better things -- at least watching for his/her appearance would create some interest as the plot and acting were n't doing the job . Lo and behold , I spied Wes Craven 's name in the credits as an electrical gaffer . He 'd already made two or three of his early shockers but had not yet created Freddie Krueger or made the `` Scream '' movies . Maybe he owed a favor and helped out on this pic . More surprising was Fred J. Lincoln in the cast credits as `` Aesop , '' a wacky character in the movie . F.J. Lincoln , from the '70s to just a few years ago , appeared in and produced adult films . He was associated with the adult spoof `` The Ozporns , '' and just that title is funnier than all of `` Tigers '' attempts at humor combined . Let the fact that an adult actor was placed in a kids movie be an indication as to how the people making this movie must have been asleep at the wheel .
My Favorite part was when the credits started to roll . I wish I could give it a .0000000000001 out of 10 . I really wish I had that Hour and thirty minutes back . Do n't waste your money or time on it . I really could have watched grass grow and felt better after wards . Nadia was really pretty and I hope the movie did n't destroy her career . But she chose to be in it . All in all it sucked more than any other movie has sucked . More than Kazaam and Glitter combined . That 's saying something . Do n't Do it ! ! ! !
Lets put it this way . I actually get this movie . I get what the writer/directer was trying to do . I understand that the dialog was meant to be dry and emotionless . I understand that the plot was supposed to be non-climactic and stale . That was what the writer/director was going for . A very very very dry humor/comedy . With all that understanding , I still think the movie sucked . It seemed like the writer/director was trying to recreate Napolean Dynamite with this movie . It had all of the same features . Even the main character behaved similar to Napolean . But Napolean Dynamite was actually funny . Its script worked . This movie is not . It has no purpose . Well , let me rephrase that . Its only purpose is to rip off Napolean Dynamite and try to capture that look and feel . Too bad it did n't work .
I ca n't believe this show is still rating a 9 out of 10 . I could see if those votes were in the first 2 seasons , but what would possess anyone to continue to rate it high after that ? I was a huge fan the 1st season . I was hooked - all the mystery , suspense , unexplained events . You never knew what was going to happen next . By season 2 , I was still watching faithfully , but was getting a little frustrated that some basic things had yet to be explained . And instead of giving you more answers , it just seemed like more questions . I LOVE suspense , but you have to throw people a bone every now and then to keep them watching . Now , I ca n't even remember what finally turned me off , but somewhere in season 2 , I had enough . I 'm not a big fan of appointment viewing - and you clearly ca n't miss an episode to stay up on what 's happening . So , it was no longer worth the effort to me . It 's a shame that they could n't have been a little smarter and more considerate of the loyal fans . I agree with some of the posters that it appears ABC just got greedy and decided to see how long they can stretch this show out . Do n't they realize that in the end , they are going to lose more fans than they could possibly gain .
I own 2 home entertainment stores and I 've seen a lot of bad movies in my time but this one was so bad it compelled me to register here and comment on it . How bad was it ? Let 's just say that Sofia Coppola deserved an Oscar for her performance in Godfather III when compared to Giada Colagrande 's in this movie . It was robotic and uninspired . Her lover has just died one month prior to her arrival at the 'Rubber House ' he had given her . Once there , she discovers he has cheated on her throughout her relationship but none of it seems to register with her . Within a day , she starts a relationship with Leslie , ( Dafoe ) the caretaker of the house . Even though she is married to Dafoe off screen , her scenes with him were cold and unemotional . If there was a plot , I missed it . Not even Willem Dafoe could save this movie from the amateur , cinematic train wreck that it is .
I loved Adrianne Curry before this show . I thought she was great on Top Model and was really glad when she won . I also liked Chris Knight , he seems like a great guy . But this show just made me SICK ! I 'm so angry at both of them for what happened on that show . I do n't care that they were different ages , I know age ca n't stand between love . But Adrianne , you had been together for ONLY SEVEN MONTHS . It did n't surprise me at all that he had n't proposed . And I do n't see the appeal of forcing someone to marry you before they 're ready . If it 's meant to be , then why not just ENJOY each other 's company and love each other , and let it come naturally ? Turning a wedding ring into a ball and chain was completely unnecessary , it 's stupidly obvious that Chris loves you , with or without a ring . And Chris , shame on you for breaking down and proposing to her anyway ! You 've been through two failed marriages , how could you rush into another one just because she pitched a fit ? I hope the relationship lasts , but I really feel that the marriage was rushed and for all the wrong reasons . Maybe now they can take a breath and find the right reasons to be married from within the marriage .
I wo n't describe the story , as that has been done elsewhere . We are great Clive Owen fans , and when our Netflix recommended the movie , we were intrigued . No wonder we had never heard of this `` movie '' , because it was a BBC Television movie back in 1992 . Hence , the poor production values , grainy image , jerky camera work and poor sound . But , you do n't really mind the mechanics , because the story itself will put you to sleep . It 's an interesting human story , but not at all compelling , and there is hardly any ending . You do n't really care for the characters as their lives are as boring as your life watching this tedious movie . Save the two hours and do something to make the time more worthwhile .
This movie reminds me of `` Irréversible ( 2002 ) '' , another art-work movie with is a violent and radical approach of human nature . I did not like the movie but I can not say that it is a bad movie , it is just special . I reminds me also of `` Camping Cosmos ( 1996 ) '' where a bunch of low-class figures are residents of a camp at the sea in Belgium . The same description of people living together , side by side against their wills and with all the confrontation of characters that do not match together . I also thought about the books by the French writer Emile Zola who was a writer of the style that is naturalism . I did not like the movie and I also do not like the people who are in it . They all seem so vulgar , without any basic good taste . One could ask the question why do they live , they all seem to be on this planet a a member of a big farce , forced to live against their will . Or you could say : the hell is on this world .
Would someone tell shaq to stick to what he is good at basketball . This movie was not even entertaining on a stupid level . In this movie shaq plays a genie who lives in a boom box is that not orginal a genie in a boom box instead of a lamp . He is supposed to help a little boy played by the equally annoying francais cappra . This movie had the most flimsy storyline since water world , the acting was awful and I think that anyone who likes this flim would be afraid to admit it .
A couple move into their dream home , unaware that it and its neighbours have been built over land formerly used as a cemetery . The film is said to have been based on a true story , although how much of it is supposed to be true is not disclosed . The plot is hardly unique - see Spielberg 's 'Poltergeist ' ( 1982 ) . Within a short time , they experience various supernatural phenomena : these range from the disturbing - mysterious shadows , the serious illness of the daughter - to the frankly ridiculous - toilets continually flushing and garage doors going out of control . There is little depth to the story : once it has become established that the land had been used as a cemetery , we do not learn anything more . The plot does not seem to develop . The characters are not particularly well drawn or in any way memorable , nor is the atmosphere particularly special . The film could be disturbing to some viewers . There is no sense of catharsis or any kind of positive message from it .
Having seen three other versions of the same film , I am afraid for me this is by far the weakest , primarily due to Scott 's rather dull and leaden performance . His emotions throughout are so bland it makes it difficult to engage in the film . Alistair Sim portrayed the role infinitely better . When Scrooge was at his meanest , you do n't get the sense Scott is saying the dialogue with much conviction and when he undergoes his metamorphosis he is similarly unconvincing . I can not think of any actors in this film who match those from the Alistair Sim version . Even the musical version ( and frankly the Muppets ) take on this are better executed . Very disappointing .
I remember when I first saw this movie , I was in sixth grade when it happened . Before I saw this , i had listened to the original Broadway recording of it , and I really loved it ! But when I saw this , I was like , what the heck ? ! This movie is missing a lot of the songs from the musical for crying out loud ! Who decided to do all of that ? ! I really am a very huge fan of Gene Kelly , but this movie is probably the worst of a musical that he ever did ! The movie looked more like a Hollywood set than the beautiful Highlands of Scotland . And who the heck decided to cut all of Meg 's songs out of the movie ? ! I am willing to bet that when they saw this movie , Lerner and Lowe were probably wondering : `` Who in the world decided to do this to our masterpiece ? '' Well they had a right to say that if they did , they were probably mad at the fact that Hollywood turned their great musical into this rather blank movie . Song and acting wise Mr. Kelly , you passed the audition with flying colors , but you are in a movie that is missing a lot of the text . So in short , if you want a good movie based on a musical by Frederick Lowe and Alan Jay Lerner , this one is n't it ! 3/10
When Rodney Dangerfield is on a roll , he 's hilarious . In My 5 Wives , he 's not on a roll . The timing of the one-liners is off , but they 're the best thing going for the movie . The five women who play the wives do n't add up to one whole actress between them . The plot is very weak . Even the premise is pretty weak ; there are a few jokes about having multiple wives , but the situation has little to do with anything else in the movie . Most of the movie could play the same way even if Rodney 's character had only one wife , so the premise seems more like an old man 's fantasy than a key part of the comedy . Another old man 's fantasy : we 're supposed to accept that Rodney 's character is an athletic skier . Jerry Stiller seems to be phoning in his role just to do a buddy a favor , and the rest of the name actors must simply be desperate for work . The odd nods to political correctness later in the movie do n't really do anything for the movie . For those who like their movies politically correct , the non-PC humor is still there in the first place , and the seeming apologies for it still do n't get the point . For those who hate seeing a movie cave in to political correctness , the PC add-ins are just annoying digressions . This has to be the mildest R-rated movie I 've ever seen . There are some racy jokes , and the bedroom scenes would have made shocking TV 40 years ago , but that 's about it . Maybe it was the topless men ( kidding ) . The DVD features interviews where the cast members seem to find depth and importance in this movie and in their roles . I kept wondering if they were serious or kidding . They seem to be serious , but I kept thinking , `` They must be kidding ! '' There 's also a peculiar disclaimer suggesting that since the movie never actually names the Mormons or the Church of Latter-Day Saints , that somehow it 's not about them . Never mind that the movie features a polygamous religion in Utah , and makes reference to Brigham Young . In short , My 5 Wives was a disappointment . I was hoping for Rodney on a roll , but the best I can say for the movie is that Rodney was looking pretty good for a guy who was pushing 80 at the time .
LL Cool J. Morgan Freeman . Dylan McDermott . Kevin Spacey . John Heard . Cary Elwes . Roslyn Sanchez . Justin Timberlake -- wait a minute . Justin Timberlake ? And he 's the star ? I should have known better than to rent EDISON FORCE . In fact , I did know better . But in a moment of absolute weakness , I rented this STV . When you have big names like Freeman and Spacey in an STV , you know it 's one of two things : an indie or a dog . As in sat-on-a-shelf . Which this did . And with good reason . The plot as such involves a squad of corrupt killer cops a la MAGNUM FORCE , and `` journalist '' Timberlake is the only one brave enough to uncover them . He is targeted for his efforts -- or maybe I should say for his horrible acting . I turned it off after one of the bad guys was shot through the forehead and still had the forethought to turn to his shooter and smile before collapsing . Just awful . The real tipoff to how bad this flick is to see Freeman on the cover and throughout the movie sporting an unruly beard , looking like nothing so much as a hobo . You just know the director was not in control . Freeman is clearly slumming .
I really wanted to like this movie . I absolutely love kenny hotz , and spenny rice has a charming side to him . Not that I like spenny at all . Spenny ruins this movie . He should of let kenny and his hot girlfriend pitch the movie . Anyways , it 's pretty boring aside from a scene with Roger Ebert in it . There really is n't too many celebrities in this movie , and most do n't seem to say more than one line . Overall this movie was disappointing . I would only suggest watching it if you got it with the season 1 DVD of kenny vs spenny ( it comes for free on the 3rd disc ) . Regardless of this production , I am still very excited to check out The Papel Chase .
Essentially a story of man versus nature , this film has beautiful cinematography , the lush jungles of Ceylon and the presence of Elizabeth Taylor but the film really never gets going . Newlwed Taylor is ignored and neglected by her husband and later is drawn to the plantation 's foreman , played by Dana Andrews . The plantation is under the spell of owner Peter Finch 's late father whose ghost casts a pall over Elephant Walk that becomes a major point of contention between Taylor and Finch . The elephants are determined to reclaim their traditional path to water that was blocked when the mansion was built across their right-of-way . The beasts go on a rampage and provides the best moments of action in the picture . Taylor and Andrews have some good moments as she struggles to remain a faithful wife in spite of he marital difficulties with Finch .
The only good part about this film is the beautiful scenery . This movie was long and boring . The minister should have retired from the pulpit the time his son Paul strayed from the teachings he proclaimed . How many times can his boys take the Lord 's name in vain in this film being from a Presbyterian background ? It does n't fit . I wished Paul was swept down the river without a boat at the very beginning to spare us the silly , smirkish , selfish story of Paul ( Brad Pitt ) . So Norm becomes a teacher and Paul becomes a compulsive gambler who Norm wants to rescue but doesn't-so what . It 's very uninteresting . We see the prejudiced whites being stood up to by Paul because of his native American girl . That was the only part that had some interest and maybe could have been developed into a real 'wild western ' . What we only see is a sleepy town where the two minister 's sons have nothing to do but 1 . Norm chase a lame girlfriend and deal with her family and 2.Paul make up dumb stories at the newspaper shop while scratching his head and take a lot of swigs and tie a lot of flies . I 'd rather watch a show about fishing that that film again-which will be never .
Absolutely one of the worst movies of the year . The plot is ridiculous , the characters poorly developed , and the premise irritatingly stupid . It all begins when Michael Keaton , fresh off of doing nothing noteworthy since Batman , loses his beautiful author wife , Anna , to a car accident , possibly caused by her driving one of those convertible VW bugs even though she 's supposed to be rich . In his grief , Batman moves to a new apartment and takes up a hobby : recording nothing and then watching it . He learned this from a really fat pathetic guy who got murdered by three tall shadowy fellows who lived in his TV . Pretty soon , he starts to see dead people , thanks to EVP , or Electronic Voice Phenomenon , which is evidently this deal wherein dead people can send messages to living people through tape recorders , video cameras , dead cell phones ( `` Anna cell calling ? But she 's ... DEAD ! ... Must be ghosts . Mhmmm . No other possible explanation . I 'd better start messing around with this indiscriminately . '' ) etc . Why they ca n't just write something down on a piece of paper or knock over some stuff to form creative pictograms is never explained . ANyway , eventually Batman discovers that he 's actually seeing the future , and he decides to go help this woman he does n't know . He gets out of his house just in the nick of time , because the tall dark guys enter just after he leaves ( `` D*mn it ! Can travel between the living and dead using electronics , but I 'll be d*mned if we can be on time ! Am I right guys ? ( They nod in bemused agreement ) . '' ) . He tracks this lady to a warehouse and finds out that this character from the first ten minutes of the movie ( look hard , or you 'll miss him ! ) is actually a serial killer working for three tall shadowy demons , who in Raiders of the Lost Ark style swoop down and kill him , looking like the cartoons that they are . Just then some detectives show up and save the lady . After Batman 's funeral , he decides to send a message from beyond the grave apologizing to his son for being an idiot , evidently feeling that the best way to protect his kid from the horrors of EVP is to expose him to it . The little kid just smiles . Nothing phases that dude , not even when his dad , Batman of course , starts talking to TV 's . The high-point of the movie was when someone 's phone rang and some guy yelled out , `` It 's Anna ! ''
and forget this . Completely . If you really need to see Madonna act , rent `` Body of Evidence '' , at least Willem Defoe is in that one . In this film , while the sets are beautiful , you may want to mute the dialog . You wo n't miss anything . Bruce Greenwood is wasted , Jeanne Tripplehorn is a prop , and Madonna is so awful , it becomes amusing . Why they had to butcher the original film into this mess , I will never know ; guess they thought it was `` bankable '' . Madonna , as an actress , certainly is NOT . If you rent the original film from 1979 , though , you will enjoy it , and the actors in it can actually act . 1/10 .
Everybody who wants to be an editor should watch this movie ! It shows you about every mistake not to do in editing a movie ! My grandma could have done better than that ! But that 's not the only reason why this movie is really bad ! ( It 's actually so bad that I 'm not able to write a sentence without exclamation mark ! ) If the first episode of ‘Les Visiteurs ' was a quite good familial comedy with funny jokes and cult dialogues , this sequel is copying badly the receipe of the first one . The funny parts could be counted on one hand and maybe half of it . Clavier is over-acting his role even more than in the first part , Robin is trying to act like Lemercier ( because she 's replacing her ) but that 's ‘grotesque ' . Lemercier is Lemercier , Robin is Robin ! Even if Muriel Robin can be funny by herself on stage , she is not in this movie because she 's not acting as she used to act . I know that it should be hard to replace somebody who was good in a role ( Lemercier obtained a César award for her role in the first movie ) but she made a big mistake : instead of playing her role , she played ‘Lemercier playing her role ' ! As for the story , it 's just too much ! Of course we knew at he end of the first movie that there would be a sequel but Poiré and Clavier should hae tried to write a more simple story like the first episode . The gags are repetitive , childish and déjà-vu . No , really , there 's no more than 3 funny parts in this . The only good things might be the costumes and some special effects . So you have only 2 reasons to watch it : 1 ) if you want to learn how to edit awfully a movie , 2 ) if you want to waste your time or if you really need a ‘brainless moment ' ! 2/10
My wife and I like to rent really stupid horror/sci-fi movies and watch them with our friends for a laugh . We saw this one on fullmoondirect.com and decided to add it to our netflix list . Now , when I say this movie is awful , I mean it in a good way . Everything about it , the acting , camera-work , story , costumes , is just so cheezy and low budget but thats what makes it so good . I think in one scene the actors looked like they were actually walking in place . I really hope that whoever made this film was n't serious when they made it because if they were , then that would just be sad . If you like to watch really stupid horror movies just to make fun of them then I recommend this one .
`` The Man In The Attic '' is a movie set in the 1910s . It is inspired by a true story . Unfortunately , it 's a story that really did n't need to be told . Looking at the box , the people responsible for packaging the movie tried their best to make this film appear steamy and erotic . They use terms such as `` illicit passion '' , `` forbidden affair '' , and `` unlimited pleasures '' . They even show a picture of Neil Patrick Harris ( little Doogie Howser , M.D . ) holding a gun ! The story involves Krista , played by Anne Archer . She is unhappily married to a gentleman who owns his own business . Edward ( Harris ) is an employee of her husband 's company . Krista and Edward end up falling in love with each other . The supposedly `` shocking '' part of the movie is this : Krista 's husband finds out about the affair and forbids them from ever seeing each other again . So what do they decide to do ? Krista ends up having Edward live up in their attic . Wow ! Krista ends up seeing someone else and Edward gets extremely jealous . So on and so on and so on . `` The Man In The Attic '' does n't cover any new territory . It 's a Showtime original picture , which explains why the stars are a couple of B-list actors and both appear briefly in the buff .
The original Thunderbirds earned a place in TV history . It was , and still is , much beloved - indeed , the entire first 10 minutes of the Wallace and Gromit movie ( the Wererabbit ) is a direct lift of Thunderbirds , down to a direct replay of the original Thunderbird 2 launching sequence ( if you do n't believe me , get the movie , and then get a copy of the original episode where Thunderbird 2 is launched ) . This movie was a crass attempt at making a kids ' movie - when the original was loved and enjoyed by kids and adults alike ! In the original , the Thunderbirds spent all of their time rescuing people who were often trapped when Mother Nature or Technology went horrible wrong ( yes , there was also the occasional criminal act ) . The Thunderbirds put their own lives and resources at risk for no reward - the very essence of heroism and selflessness . There was little physical violence . The Thunderbirds challenged the imagination to a degree - how many of us would dream of someday building a Thunderbird 2 ? And do n't underestimate the power of entertainment to do this - many Japanese attribute their fascination with humanoid robots to the old Astroboy cartoon . But this movie was a poor re-image of the original . This movie came across as a meld between Thunderbirds and Loony Tunes - I mean , we have Anthony Edwards as Brain imitating Porky Pig 's stuttering ? ? ? ? ? Much of the action consists of Kung Fu/Power Rangers type fighting . Indeed , there were funny sound effects when someone got nailed on the head with a frying pan . The tech that fired our imagination was absent - instead we have these kids running around , using a plot device that was NEVER in the original series ( having the entire team take off at once , leaving the base occupied by the kids and Brain ) . Then there was a dose of `` Use the Force Luke '' mysticism thrown in when TinTin would levitate something or another , coupled with the The Hood using aerodynamics that looked like they were lifted from `` Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon '' . About the only thing missing was for The Hood to go `` TinTin , I am your Uncle '' with a breath mask voice . The heart that made Thunderbirds unique was GONE . The only bright point was Ron Cook 's portrayal of Parker - he caught it perfectly . But the actress playing Lady Penelope came across as a child - HUH ? ? ? ? And this is why we hate this movie . When someone puts out something that was popular to a fan base , and expects the fans to shell out money to watch , and then delivers something than was n't even close to what the fans expect - well , I am sorry , that is just plain WRONG ! OK , so if they were making a kids ' movie - fine - next time distribute it straight to video , where many of these belong . But do n't package something up in a familiar wrapper and change the innards .
Just kidding ! This was one of the worst movies I have ever seen ! It was so bad though , that it was hilarious . My friend and I purposly rented it because it looked so bad . Cheesy old horror flicks are always good for some laughs . The plot stunk , some of the voices were dubbed , the quality was horrendous . But I sure had a blast watching it !
In order to avoid confusion , let me clarify a couple of points : I am not a red neck . I am not even a moderate nor a conservative . Quite on the contrary , I am a radical : a Libertarian . I 'm not a WASP either , I was not even born in the States . Jorge Luis Borges used to say that there are some kind of folk who do not feel poetry , and that these sad people usually earn their living teaching poetry . This movie was made by and for people who do not feel poetry , by and for show-offs ; and I dare say , by and for people who have no sense of decency or , for that matter , respect for other people 's life or death ( especially when the victims are thought to be mostly 'bloody imperialists ' killed in Yankee soil . ) I even find the original marketing idea of the eleven episodes of eleven minutes , nine seconds and one frame as particularly hideous and repulsive . Just plain awful . Why did n't they assign a budget of as many dollars per episode as individuals were brutally murdered in the attack ? The whole idea rests somewhere between mere stupidity and reckless fascism . Anybody who is serious about film-making ( and serious about life and death ) should have angrily declined to participate in this recollection of innuendoes and non-sequiturs . With two exceptions : the episode of Burkina Faso -- almost amusing -- , and the one from India -- which documents the story of a man who was unfairly and wrongly investigated in relation to the attack , on the basis that afterwards he did n't return home and that he was an American Muslim ( and , truth be told , when the facts were known he was honored as a hero ) . All other nine episodes , essentially and extremely boring and emotionless , can be listed in two different categories : First : 'I do n't care about the thousands of victims : Americans , foreigners , children , youngsters , adults , old-timers ... ' and can be resumed in pure boredom and lack of emotion . Makhmalbaf 's ( Iran ) ; Lelouch 's ( France ) – I 'm afraid I 'm going to commit an heresy since it 's Lelouch 's , but maybe , his episode might be considered built upon an idea which could be regarded as almost original ; Tanovic 's ( Bosnia-Herzegovina ) ; Gonzalez Inarritu 's ( Mexico ) ; Gitaï 's ( Israel ) ; Penn 's ( USA ) Second : 'The bloody Yankees deserve it ' . And can be resumed in frustration and hatred . Chahine ( Egypt ) vindicates the suicide bombers ; Loach ( UK ) considers the 9/11 reckless attacks were some kind of punishment for the alleged support of the USA to the Chilean dictatorship headed by the serial-killer Augusto Pinochet , in fact someone should inform Mr. Loach that the victims of Pinochet were not related to Al-Qaida and that Chile is a South American country which sole existence Mr. Bin Laden should have ignored , he ought to be informed too that the American government sanctions against the Chilean dictatorship were harder than any other ciountrie 's ; and , Imamura ( Japan ) windingly points out that WWII is related the attack to the WTC . Imamura has at least been coherent in this : the supposed cause effect linking is entirely nonsensical , which plays well with his episode including a man who believes himself to be a snake . It pretends to be obscure . It is , instead , quite ludicrous . There 's some kind of error shared by many , including some Americans , and it consists in the belief that this movie was n't commercially screened in the States because of some kind of censorship . Nothing further from the truth : This movie was n't screened in the States because it is a complete fiasco . A fiasco of the wackyest kind . Even in Buenos Aires , where Peronism and other forms of Fascism are nearest and dearest to the hearts of a sizable number of its inhabitants , and anti-Americanism is in vogue , the movie was screened in living rooms hurriedly converted into theaters , and was applauded by a very select public : The usual sad few who routinely lend their applause to other equally 'quaint ' spectacles . Like the sight of a McDonald 's fast-food restaurant or , perchance , an elderly Jew , being burnt to ashes .
I picked this movie up to replace the dismal choice of daytime television and to go with my thirst for femme fatales . Well , for the previous , it is better than daytime television ... .though I 'm not sure how much . It does have its points but after about the first 20-30 minutes , the good points pan out and one comes to the conclusion that they are watching a made for TV movie that was put together with not much time to make something that will hold together . In short , a terrible Sci Fi channel type movie . It has its points such as the future is dirty , like `` Blade Runner '' showed ... .. of course , this is no `` Blade Runner '' . The Captain looks , sort of feels like actor Robert Forster , the kind of person one might want to be around . But unfortunately , it rather ends up feeling like a bad `` Andromeda '' rehash where the muscle of the crew consists of poor copies of the smart gunners of `` Aliens '' , the mystic is vampire Willow sexually intensified , and the new Captain might as well be like Jan-Michael Vincent running around on `` Danger Island '' in the `` Banana Splits '' ; he only put on the uniform with the epaulets ; he 's got very little right to it . All of them running around with their version of force lances inside a ship that looks very much like the 'Eureka Maru ' as they are fighting a class of 'people ' who occupy the universe and are broken up into several different tribes or sects of different evolutionary qualities ... ... .just like the Nietzcheans in `` Andromeda '' . It might have a redeeming feature with Michael Ironside , but after a while , one gets the feeling that he took the part as a hoot ! He probably had fun doing it , but it does n't help the movie much . It 's ... .. `` okay '' . Okay in the way that one might watch the DVD once without turning it off ; if they watch it with commercials , they will probably change the channel . One might watch it once ... ... ... . but a few hours later , be wondering what it was that made them watch it all . For me , that was the femme fatale ... ... ... ... . when she was fighting .
This is the worst movie I ever paid to see and with the exception of `` They Saved Hitler 's Brain '' the worst movie I have ever seen period . When this movie came out I was a big fan of SNL and SCTV and therefore was anticipating what I thought would be the funniest movie that could be produced since it did not have the restrictions the TV improv shows must deal with . The writers must have thought we will throw in some grossness , some flatulence jokes , some cheap sex and hey we have a risky side splitting laughable comedy . The game show skits are nothing more than cheap unimaginable take offs on Let 's Make a Deal with stupid grossness . The sit com take off involving the single girl and her boyfriend was just plain bad high school humor . The stun gun advertisement was suitable humor for Seasame Street . The LA subway skit was bland humor using tasteless bloodiness . The french chef walking around blind constantly uttering `` there is no difference '' with a french accent was , well you get my point . The only funny skit involved Chevy Chase which lasted for a whole minute . This means you get 60 seconds of entertainment in this movie . Oh yea I 've read the comments about the entire country being stoned in the 1970 's and you will like this movie if you are high . Well most of the country was not stoned in the 70 's . If the inept writers were stoned it must have been on drowsy sinus medicine . There were 4 other people in the theater besides myself when I saw this movie . Of course word did not get out yet about how bad the movie was .
Okay , I 'm not going to critique this film in depth . I note the many elogious reviews in advance of me , and as I generally like Maria de Medeiros , I have been long hesitant to make a disparaging comment - and in such fashion nearly a year has passed . But each time I see that DVD on my shelf , I sense an inner groan . Anyway , let the elogious voices override me ! But for other cinephiles like me - beware . Expressed in simplest and gentlest terms , here 's my stance : The political turmoil and overthrow providing the backdrop for this film also served as a backdrop for a certain period of my life - via newspapers I read daily in my local middle-European pub . At that time , I followed the newsreports , but never fully grasped what the heck was transpiring . The reporters tended to report either in non-partisan terms , or with a conservatism which frowned upon any groups disturbing the peace or fomenting rebellion against the establishment . Those were times when other winds of unrest swirled through Paris , Berlin , Prague , and various places in the U.S. , all of whose issues I understand clearly at the time - but dictatorship or not , my papers tended to treat the govermentment of Portugal simply as the establishment - not as a well-fleshed out `` evil empire '' , to use flippant Star War terms . So , week after week , I read of disturbances , but never found an intelligent editorial that might provide the history behind them , or evaluate the practices and social-economic impacts of the dictatorship , etc . So , in purchasing this film , I had at least two hopes : to finally understand the details leading up to the social unrest , and to enjoy a well-conceived drama . This film gave me neither . The film presupposes that viewers already have ample knowledge and deep emotions regarding the historical facts . And the drama - well , as I said , I want to encourage Maria de Medeiros and the Portugues film industry , but - it was trite and shallow . I obtained my copy of the DVD from France - `` Selection Official Cannes 2000 - Un Certain Regard '' . The box shows smiling clean-shaven actors , the lead giving the victory sign in a fashion that reminds me more of the Playboy bunny . After seeing the work , I wondered what the French could have thought of it - though as a shallow piece of `` cinema verite ' '' with sensitive ethnic content , I can understand their natural inclination to praise it for its `` honesty '' but ... Look at the back of the box : `` Un regard chaleuruex sur la Revolution '' - a warm regard ? Try describing Allende 's overthrown and murder with a a `` warm regard '' ! Try it with Czechoslovakia in 1968 ! Try it with the whole line-up of overthrows , and civil rebellions ! Another review : Maria de Medeiros a renoue ' avec son pays , son enfance et son histoire . '' Rubbish , rubbish , rubbish ! At least for me . I love Portugal . In all of Europe , Lisbon , Barcelona and Prague are my favorite cities . But my love for a city and a country does n't flesh out a vacuous film . I 'll hang on to my ancient VHS tapes of Capas Negras and A Cancao de Lisboa - meanwhile , I 'm stuck with a zone 2 by the above title that might as well go in the trash .
In the U.S. , very few films have been made about Rome that were not set in the time of Julius Caesar or shortly thereafter . Hollywood 's sword and sandal epics mostly have a Christian theme , which makes it difficult to get into earlier Roman history ( Spartacus was probably the first exception to this rule , and encountered some resistance in Hollywood because it did not have Jesus in it ) . It 's interesting to see at least one picture that not only takes place before the time of Caesar and Christ , but is set when Rome was only one city among many on the Italian peninsula , and had just ousted the hated King Tarquin and formed the Republic . However , this is not a historical film ; it 's peplum , and while the production values are n't rock bottom , the acting and characterizations are cardboard . I can only imagine what the dialogue was like in Italian , but with wooden English dubbing it 's very campy . I got a few good laughs out of it at first . I have n't seen many films of this genre , having missed most of the Hercules movies of the 60s . It 's amusing up to a point , but as the film goes on , it gets somewhat boring . One thing 's for sure : if I 'd seen this movie when I was ten years old , I would have loved it . At that age , I went for anything with Romans and swordfights in it . So at least , this flick brought back some childhood memories .
This delectable fusion of New Age babble and luridly bad film-making may not `` open '' you up , to borrow one of the film 's favorite verbs , but it might leave your jaw slack and your belly sore from laughter or retching . Based on the best-selling book by James Redfield , first ( self ) published in 1993 , this cornucopia of kitsch tracks the spiritual awakening of an American history teacher ( Matthew Settle ) who , on traveling to deepest , darkest , phoniest Peru and sniffing either the air or something else more illegal . Namely what he discovers is a schlock Shangri La populated by smiling zombies who may be nuts or just heavily medicated , perhaps because they 're often accompanied by a panpipe flourish and an occasional shout out from a celestial choir . Although there 's a lot of talk about `` energy , '' that quality is decidedly missing from the motley cast whose numbers include Thomas Kretschmann , Annabeth Gish , Hector Elizondo and Jurgen Prochnow , all of whom are now firmly ensconced in the camp pantheon . For those who care , the plot involves the military , terrorists and the Roman Catholic Church ; Armand Mastroianni provided the inept direction while Mr. Redfield , Barnet Bain and Dan Gordon wrote the hoot of a script . In short , easily the worst film seen in 40+ years of viewing movies .
1 ) I am not weapon expert , but even i can see difference between U.S. army riffles in WWI and WWII . In movie we can see privates , armed with `` M1 Garand '' ( invented in year 1932 ! ) , not authentic `` 1903 Springfield '' ( aka `` Silent Death '' ) , who privates use until WWII . Difference - M1 can load 1,5 times more ammunition and 3 times more fire rate ! M1 was semi - automatic , Springfield requires reloading after every shot . Little difference ? ! 2 ) German army uniforms has borrowed from 1940 Year too . Especially - helmets . German helmets until end of WWI have significant pike on top , we can not see even one in movie . And if we make little additional search in archives - how much truthful is this `` True Story '' ? I am surprised , how much `` truthful '' can be film directors in a pursuit of cheap propagation .
OK , the movie is good but I give it a 1 because the idea of a computer virus becoming an organic virus is pure fairy tale . This kind of crap just adds to those uncomputer savvy moron 's paranoid delusions that a computer virus is exactly like an organic virus . First of all , strings of code and dozens of 1s and 0s add up to computer virus . An organic virus is much more complex , even though it 's way tinier . Though , it 's considered one of the simplest forms in the universe , organic virus 's attach burrow into your cells and attach themselves to the RNA , then change your own RNA code . Explain to me how something like that could be processed from a monitor ? Maybe the radiation has some effect on the user 's cornea that turns your eyeballs into these viruses ? I could see that , but obviously , the writer did n't think of that .
This thing is really awfull . There´s no charachter with weight , they´re all floating around in the BG´s . The Motion Capture is a fine toy , but this movie demostrates that you really need people who knows animation to do an animated film . THE MACHINE CAN´T DO ANYTHING WELL BY ITSELF . If you see it as a bizarre film , you´ll have fun finding mistakes of continuity ... IN A 3D MOVIE ! ! ! It´s funny to watch the princess dress move around like a thing with diferent phisics . You need animators and 3D animators , not data-entries whom know 3D programs . Note the junctions , like the elbows , how they lost volume and get deformed . The person who made the charachter design ( a very good one ) sufered for sure when he/she watched them move , ´cos you can´t say they come to life .
Once I ignored some of the implausibilities , this was actually a fairly decent horror/monster flick . So , I 'll give some of the good points first : - the dragon was quite convincing , especially as she prowled through the tunnels looking for lunch ( hint : she likes humans ) . - the action was fairly non stop , and , after a weak beginning , I got quite absorbed in the storyline . - sorry to say , I was kind of rooting for the dragon - she was probably the most convincing and consistent character in the movie . Now for the implausible stuff **maybe some spoilers** : - if you were hunting a fire-breathing dragon in 1100 AD , would you charge into its cave with a barrel of gunpowder under your arm ? Duh . - a female character with an all-American name , blonde hair and obvious Slavic accent , trying to pretend she 's Spanish ? Huh ? - a lead scientist whose Slavic accent you can cut with a knife , and he 's supposedly born in Chicago , educated in USA ? - a military helicopter pilot who does his own repairs , flies a huge transport copter with no other crew , and is an expert marksman and combat soldier to boot ? OK . Uh huh . I wo n't even mention his giving 3 different call signs in 2 minutes while communicating with his base . It 's still better than some of the Japanese monster flicks from the 60 's , but not by much . If we 're lucky , we wo n't see Dragon Fighter 2 , though naturally the ending left that possibility wide open . Or , maybe , they 'll hire a real director next time . In spite of everything , I gave this flick a 4 out of 10 . Add 2 more if they rewrite the plot , and Dean Cain gets eaten in the first ten minutes . < grin >
Since the 70s , writer/producer/director Charles Band has been responsible for literally hundreds of science-fiction , fantasy and horror B-movies . Some of them are wonderful examples of how to use a tiny budget to maximum effect ; many of them are pretty bad . Trancers ( 1985 ) was one of those rare gems . A Terminator style tale of time-travel and action , Trancers saw Tim Thomerson playing Jack Deth , a future cop given the task of tracking down bad-guy Whistler , who travels into the past by inhabiting the body of an ancestor . Whistler is capable of controlling other humans with his psychic powers , converting them into obedient zombies ( the 'trancers ' of the title ) , and attempts to alter the course of history by killing off the ancestors of the leaders of the future . Jack follows him to 1985 , determined to stop him . In this 1991 sequel , Jack is still living in 1985 . Having destroyed Whistler , he has settled down and married Leena ( Helen Hunt ) , the young woman who helped him succeed in the first movie . But , for Jack , things do n't stay calm for long , and trouble appears in the form of Whistler 's brother , E.D . Wardo , who is trying to build a trancer army . Trancers II lacks the charm and simplicity of the original and is a huge disappointment considering how good the original was . The story is difficult to pick up if you have n't seen the first film ( or at least not for a long while ) , and there is loads of unimpressive action and a few poor special effects . Gone is the inventiveness and wit that made Trancers so much fun ; instead we get some cheesy one-liners and a script that feels like it was written on-the-fly . About the only reason I can give for recommending this film to fans of the genre is the cast , which boasts many names that will be familiar to followers of sci-fi and horror movies : Jeffrey Combs , Barbara Crampton , Richard Lynch , Martine Beswicke . Unfortunately , most of them seemed to be having an 'off day ' whilst filming Trancers II , and performances are mediocre at best . The Trancers series obviously has its fans ; four further sequels have since been churned out . Unless the quality has taken up massive upward swing , I ca n't imagine them being any good .
`` Godzilla vs King Ghidorah '' is a perfect example how a great idea can be ruined by pathetic topics like pseudo-patriotism . Here , travellers from the future try to ruin Japan , replacing the local hero Godzilla with their puppy monster , the three-headed golden dragon King Ghidorah . They fail , however and in the end Godzilla fights Ghidorah . The battles between the two behemoths are very cool , but the plot of the movie is full with holes and the all thing about `` Japan is great '' is really stupid . The creators of this movie did n't even threat with respect the enemies of Japan , making them stupid big blond guys , who are easily outsmarted by the clever Japanese . The good thing is that in the end Godzilla and king Ghidorah nearly destroyed the both Japan and it 's ridiculous enemies in one ( actually two ) spectacular combats . But till this battle royale , the film was really dull and pathetic .
Up until the last few minutes of the movie , I would have given the movie a score of 7 or 8 stars . However , the ending is so terrible and `` Hollywoodized '' that it completely undermines the first 80 % of the movie . The plot revolves around a submarine and the possibility that they received an order to fire their nuclear missiles . The Captain , Gene Hackman , is all for launching , while his first officer , Denzel Washington , is in favor of confirming the launch orders first . The problem is , to launch BOTH the captain and 1st officer must simultaneously use their launch keys . Hackman is determined to launch and Washington stands firm until eventually this results in armed insurrection aboard the sub . Eventually , the mistake is discovered and the missiles are not launched . Cool . However , here comes the part that just does n't ring true . After they are back on land and go before a review board , Washington and Hackman ( who 'd just spent half the movie trying to kill each other ) shake hands and are all buddy buddy ! Huh ? ! Too trite an ending to make the movie worth while for me .
A film like Amazing Grace and Chuck is a perfect example of how the left in this country just does n't get it . They never did . And liberalism continues to slip further and further into political oblivion . This film deals with a little league baseball star who decides to stop playing ball as a protest to the existence of nuclear weapons . The boy is understandably ridiculed until a bevy of professional athletes , led by former NBA star Alex English , join his cause . Not just a few of them join the cause . By the time his movement reaches its zenith , entire leagues of professional and college sports have to cancel their seasons since nobody will play any more . Just to move this review along , I 'm prepared to grant them this premise . Even though it would never happen in a million years , I 'll just imagine it could , then go from there . I do n't quite remember how , but some type of agreement is reached , and the boy decides to go back to the game he loves in an incredibly sappy and ridiculous scene . Before criticizing the message of this film , let me just say that this film is poorly written , acted and directed . Even if one does agree with the boy 's stance , it would be impossible to overcome how badly the film was constructed . And that 's a shame since there are plenty of good actors that go to waste . ( Peck , Curtis , Petersen ) . Alex English does as well as he could have with his character however , and I wish he would try to act in more films . Alas , it 's likely much easier to find work in the coaching world of the NBA . One wishes Mr. English would teach more of these thuggish NBA types of today how to shoot the rock a little better . Alex certainly knew how to put the ball through the hoop . As far as the film 's message in concerned , it 's just wrong-headed . Plain and simple . All of those nuclear warheads tucked away in those missile silos out west PREVENTED WAR ! ! ! ! ! It would be one thing for this boy and his flock to protest an actual war or the USE of nuclear weapons . These weapons were in fact never used , and that was the genius behind their existence . Neither side during the cold war was crazy enough to fire a single missile . Without these weapons , who knows what might have happened between the USA and USSR . The makers of this film obviously intended for kids in America to take up their cause and follow in Chuck 's footsteps . Kids in America however are more intelligent than the left wing kooks who created this dreck . The film is worth only 2 of 10 stars . If you want to see a great film about the dangers of nuclear war , stick with Dr. Strangelove , instead . Mr. Newell , you are no Frank Capra !
So the wife and I just finished it despite several threats from both of us to turn it off . For the most part boredom was the worst part of this movie , there was just very little excitement . The acting was atrocious , to the point where we actually chuckled several times during some of the worse scenes ( the church lady for example ) . The dead sister was using paranormal means to contact her living twin , although rather then send useful information she focused on trying to scare the hell out of her instead which looked a lot like The Ring . Rather then get the police involved -- which I 'm sure those earplugs she found would have DNA all over them -- she instead devises a horrible plan to 'get ' the man who covered up the accidental death of her sister . I call it a horrible plan because in the end she allows him to kill her too , which the movie then fades to black . Bad dialog , bad acting , bad ending .
Why did I go to see this film ? Honestly , because Jim Carrey was in it and in the past he has made hilarious movies that have made me cry with laughter , so do you really blame me for expecting that again ? Additionally , the premise , the funny trailer , his co-star Jennifer Aniston 's involvement , and the fact it was a massive hit stateside encouraged me . However , as my `` one line Summary '' suggests , I was Disappointed . For various reasons ; Reason 1 : It was n't funny . In a 2hour movie , I laughed for about 5-10minutes ... all together , the rest of the time I sat thinking `` I really should have got some ice-cream '' . I admit that maybe it is wrong to judge Jim Carrey on his previous films , but what does he really expect when he makes Gem 's such as 'The Truman Show ' , 'Liar Liar ' , 'Me , Myself and Irene ' , 'Dumb and Dumber ' , 'The Mask ' , and the 'Ace Ventura ' films then produces , in Bruce Nolan 's own words , such a mediocre film ? Reason 2 : Jennifer Aniston 's role was criminally underwritten . I mean hello ! She 's been around in the public eye for about ten years now , and in this film she gets about four lines to say . Wrong . Reason 3 : One word - Cliché Reason 4 : A casual deployment of specifically American References - Jimmy Hoffa , Walter Cronkite 'sweeps week ' - is a clue to the film 's specifically home-grown appeal . `` A teenager says no to drugs and yes to an Education - that 's a miracle ! Want to see a miracle soon ? Be the miracle ! '' God tells Bruce , a heavy handed sentiment that seems to have gone down a treat in the US , but might face tougher resistance in markets that retain an inkling for subtlety . Additionally , I still go to school , and that statement suggests me and all of my friend 's are miracles ... or maybe it just means we have brains ? In this film there are enough funny Carrey moments to make you chuckle and prevent Bruce Almighty from being a total calamity , but you are advised to start revising your expectations downwards .
Have you ever wondered what would happen if a couple of characters from Beverly Hills 90210 were thrown into a Thai jail ? If so , this is your movie . This is Midnight Express for the MTV crowd . That would be ok , but the story was poorly executed . Contrived plot twists , poor dialogue and unresolved issues abound . This slight film did not earn the right to be as cryptic as it ends up being . Potential spoiler and impossibly preposterous plot line-the faux tension filled moment when the hotel employee discovers the girls do not have a room there and is about to kick them out . ( This moment is innappropriately played with the same solemnity and gravity as the moment when they are arrested at gunpoint ) . Later the same hotel employee is somehow found-and Bangkok is a big city , mind you , Ive been there- and testifies against the girls , as if a couple of free Mai Tais warrant 40 years in prison . C'mon . Rent Another Day in Paradise instead .
Early , heavy , war-time propaganda short urging people to be careful with their spending practices , in effort to prevent any runaway inflation . Using scare , guilt and patriotic jingoistic rhetoric , which was normal for the time , the government was concern that the sudden war-time production and therefore wage increase and subsequent spending practices if not checked could cause serious problems during and after the war . It truly is a window into the past , historically and culturally .
I have walked out of very few movies before they end , but I could n't finish this piece of garbage . This was the biggest load of racism trying to pass as legitimate film since `` Birth of a Nation '' . The characters were little more than cardboard cutouts . I do n't see how any actor would want their name associated with this film . Lee must have better things to do that put out garbage like this . I know that I and anyone with a brain have better things to do ... . like watching paint dry . I wish that someone would make a film about interracial relationships that dealt with the topic realistically . There is a lot more depth to this subject the shallow ranting of a bitter director like Lee .
The first 30 minutes of Tinseltown had my finger teetering on the remote , poised to flick around to watch something else . The premise of two writers , down on their luck , living in a self-storage-space `` bin '' was mildly amusing , but , painfully bland . The introduction of the character , played by Joe Pantoliano - the big deal movie guy , that lives in the park and sleeps in a lavatory , offered hope and I decided to give it a few more minutes . And then a few more until Kristy Swansons introduction as a budding film director & borderline nymphomaniac , added a bit of spice . Her solid acting performance raised her presence above and beyond just a very welcome eye-candy inclusion . Ultimately , the obvious low-budget impacts on the film with poorly shot scenes , stuttured pace and slapstick handling of certain moments . Some of my favourite movies of all time have been low budget , Whithnail & I being one that also deals with 2 guys with a dream , but down on their luck . However , for my money , the actors save Tinseltown from the `` Terrible movie '' archives and just about nudges it into the `` could have been a cult movie '' archives . I laughed out loud at some of the scenes involving Joe Pantoliano 's character . In particular , the penultimate scenes in the terribly clichéd , but still funny , rich-but-screwed-up characters house , where the story unravels towards it 's final moments . I can see how Tinseltown was a great stage play and while the film-makers did their best to translate this to celluloid , it simply did n't work and while I laughed out loud at some of scenes and one liners , I think the first 30 minutes dulled my senses and expectations to such a degree I would have laughed at anything . Unless you 're stuck for a novelty coffee coaster , do n't pick this up if you see it in a bargain bucket .
STAR RATING : ***** Saturday Night **** Friday Night *** Friday Morning ** Sunday Night * Monday Morning Marshall Lawson ( Steven Seagal ) is assigned to France on a reconaissance mission along with three new young strike-team recruits after disobeying a direct order from above . However the night before they 're due to strike , they are all found grusomely slaughtered by a killer with seemingly inhuman strength . With the French police dallying around with their own investigation , he goes in search of those responsible himself , only to uncover a corrupt faction of the military dealing in a deadly new drug that alters a person 's DNA and gives them terrifying new strength . Bad cover . Bad title . Bad post-production tampering . And bad trailer . Pretty bad film . But , I 've got to say , I do n't think Attack Force is quite his worst . I know this will make me unpopular with most of the other reviewers here ( perhaps not Steveday ! ) but I think a lot of the criticism has stemmed from all the bad news that went before the film rather than the actual quality of it itself . I must say there was nowhere near as much dubbing or ropey editing as I 'd been lead to believe . The dubbing there was ( which made him sound like Martin Sheen with a groin problem ! ) was pretty awful and quite frequent but not in use for as large a segment of the film as I 'd thought . The plot flowed pretty smoothly as well considering all the messing about with the original finished film called Harvester that went on . Also as another reviewer noted , the film has a nice Gothic look to it , a new touch for a Seagal film . The absolute killer low point , though , was the complete and total lack of any exciting action , with only a few poorly filmed fight scenes for any fun . I have to be honest , though , I would rather watch this again than Flight of Fury , Today You Die or Out for a Kill . **
I live in Ottawa where this film was made and I really wish it had n't been . This is one God-awful flick . I really try and support independent films but there is this stigma attached to anything indie and that stigma is : Indie Films Blow . Well , this film does nothing to shed this curse . The actor , writer , director Brett Kelly does little to contribute to the genre , rather he re-hashes tired clichés from movies past . I am really tired of menacing evil looking characters that lurk in the shadows and prey on the unsuspecting , it 's way too overdone . I can remember one scene in particular right near the end of the flick where the whole scene is lit with car headlights . Now some may say that this was an effect used to create mood and tension , but sadly it was to showcase the shoestring budget of this movie . As well for a movie that dares to call itself horror , a viewer will find themselves hard pressed to find any actual gore , other than a few scenes with corn syrup and red food colouring . The biggest thing that drags this film down is the pacing and the lack of character development , the basic plot is that children are being kidnapped and the parents must track down this Bonesetter fellow before a certain time in order to get their kids back . Not that this concept bugs me , but , I did n't really find it believable that when the two main characters , both who have lost children can find time to make out with each other . This is done in such a short time span that it 's inconceivable , my first priority would be to get my daughter back and at least get to know the lady before making out with her . The last point that I have is ... . and I wo n't hold this against Kelly , but the movie is shot entirely on boring , emotionless video and that really takes away from any tense moments that would have just oozed style on film . Although if this movie were given a million dollar makeover and redone the story and boring acting and lame everything could not keep this movie afloat . My only hope is that something happens to prevent Brett Kelly from making a sequel , which has been reported on his website , a sequel that was half written in one sitting . Lord help us all .
After watching this film , I was left with a two very annoyances about this film : why did they make Chen 's character this `` McGuyver hit-man '' and Lee 's character such an incompetent idiot ? Chen 's character 's background is that he was raised in an underground Cambodian orphanage for blood thirsty fighter where they learn to brawl it out to the death like wild `` dogs . '' This detail is pushed early on during a scene where he gets into a cab and as it starts to drive , he shows how he is unfamiliar with a seat belt . Soon after this scene , he has a similar situation at a dim sum restaurant . Not only is he uneducated , he is starving . This is not a reference to Chen 's scrawny physique but to the two early scenes in the film where he is scarfing down food , one of which , being rice porridge off the floor of the lower deck on an old ship . Si in the first ten minutes of the film , it is established that Chen is malnutrition-ed , unmodernized , and has only thing going for him , his `` dog '' brawling fighting style of some sort . Despite this situation , Chen manages to out-shoot every policeman ( even managing to ricochet a bullet off a metal pipe to hit a guy in a head , whom was holding Chen 's girlfriend hostage ) and has somehow attained a super human strength ( swings a 50 lb block of concrete , plastered on the end of a metal pipe , to the head of the police chief AS he is getting shot in the chest , by said chief ) . Now Lee 's character ... okay , I get it , he 's depressed , he 's got some baggage , but wow , can he do anything right ? One moment , they try to make him cool , composed and ready to take care of business , and the next moment , he just got beat again . First scene he runs into Chen , and he manages to misses him , from approx 15 ft , multiple times . Toward the end of that scene , Lee watches Chen as his close friend and coworker gets slowly stabbed in the neck with a long knife for a good full 5 seconds , while holding a gun to Chen face , at a 10 ft distance . Even at the end of the movie , Lee manages to get stabbed to death and fails once again . And my biggest problem with this movie is that it is presented in a manner that film makers are trying to get the audience to sympathize with Chen 's character and that he is just `` killing to survive . '' That would be a lot easier if I did n't just watch Chen kill innocent people throughout the whole awful movie . Of the numerous people he killed , only two people had the intention of trying to kill him , the police chief and Lee . Others were just people who were eating , boat owners , taxi drivers , and policemen trying to arrest him , not kill . Overall , Chen 's character is a just a cold blooded killer who kills for what he wants , even if its just a free ride . ( Did I mention he is carrying a wad of hundred dollar bills throughout most of the film ? ) My 3 stars go to some of the interesting director/camera work who got in some nice shots . Bottomline : One made for the nut-hugging Chen fans . For me , `` Dog Bite This DVD ''
I like Fulci films , i really do and not in some boring ironic way either but i recognise that they appear hopelessly inept and garbled to lots of people . Conquest is where Fulci tries his hand at the epic fantasy genre and does n't really succeed . Structurally , it 's like most Fulci films you 've seen . Some stuff happens , some more stuff happens and occasionally one scene might be tangentially related to another . Really it 's like Conan with no sets , no script , no real actors ( yes , Arnold Scharzenfartz is hardly an actor either ) , no budget , stupid looking dog soldiers and a bunch of gore . This one was a hard one to get through and i could 've lived without the inch of vaseline smeared on the camera to give it that Hair Metal music video look .
This film is the worst excuse for a motion picture I have EVER seen . To begin , I 'd like to say the the front cover of this film is by all means misleading , if you think you are about to see a truly scary horror film with a monster clown , you are soooo wrong . In fact the killers face does n't even slightly resemble the front cover , it 's just an image they must have found on Google and thought it looked cool . Speaking of things they found and thought it looked cool , there is a scene in this film where some of the gang are searching for the friend in the old woods , then suddenly the screen chops to a scene where there is a mother deer nurturing it 's young in a glisten of sunlight ... I mean seriously WTF ? ? ? How is this relevant to the dark woods they are wandering through ? I bought this film from a man at a market hoping it would be entertaining , if it was n't horror then at least it would be funny right ? WRONG ! The next day I GAVE it to my work colleague ridding myself from the plague named S.I.C.K Bottom line is : Do n't SEE THIS FILM ! ! !
With nothing better to do I decided to check out `` Aztec Rex '' ( as it was being billed ) for the hell of it . The silly story might have played better if the dinosaur effects were convincing . They actually looked like animatics ( those rough designs that artists later use to finish the CGI effects , adding more details , smoother movements , etc . ) Absolutely awful-looking dinosaurs , which is the only reason you 'd probably want to sit through this anyway . The one redeeming factor was the lovely Dichen Lachman as Ayacoatl . She kept my interest ; if only the budget had been ramped up and some convincing dinosaurs could have been used . Disappointing . At least the cast and crew got a free trip to Hawaii , where the movie was filmed .
I saw this in a sneak two days before the official opening , and I must say I was extremely disappointed . And I have to put the majority of these problems on the decision to cast Claire Danes in the lead role . Depending on what you think about Danes , she was either horribly miscast , or is so far in over her head that she should be the early favorite for the 2007 Razzie for Worst Actress . I think we were supposed to be sympathetic to her . Instead , she is completely unlikeable . The other `` great '' actresses do an OK job , but certainly do n't light up the screen . Out of all the `` great '' actresses in this movie , I 'd say the one who did the best job was Natasha Richardson . Streep is barely in the picture , and only appears near the very end . Horrible screenplay as well . It comes off more as them reading lines than truly being `` in character . ''
This motion picture comes straight out of the dark dungeon of Full Moon Entertainment . This production company gained fame and fortune during the first half of the 90 's by producing terribly bad and cheesy horror movies . The most famous disasters in their ouvre are `` Subspecies '' , `` Seedpeople '' and `` Trancers '' . None of these are recommended and neither is Doctor Mordrid , actually . Hyperactive director Charles Band did come to the right company for his film . Doctor Mordrid is amazingly dumb and cheesy and almost completely humourless . I only saw it because it stars Jeffrey Combs . I learned that it can have several disadvantages if you 're a fan of him . For every good movie , it seems like he has made 5 inferior ones . Anyways , the story is about the battle between 2 ancient sorcerers . One good one who 's here since 150 years to protect the humans ( Jeffrey as Dr.Mordrid ) and one wicked one called Kabal . He wants to destroy every form of human life for some reason I already forgot . Combs gets his instructions from mentor . That `` guy '' only exists of a pair of eyes in space . Very very cheesy , that is ! Every once and a while a blinding lightflash is shown on the screen but that 's about the only form of Special effects this movie has got . The whole thing is just a piece of whining and nagging and when the two wizards finally face each other , it 's over before you know it ... I would have expected for the wicked wizard to at least fight back a little , but nooooooo ... . In some scenes , you really can detect some originality and creativity ( like for example Jeffrey 's lecture about the influence of the moon on criminals ) and if you really pay attention , you might even find some very small but nice aspects ( like the raven which is called Edgar Allen ) but overall , it 's a terrible waste of time and energy . I 'm a big fan of Jeffrey and maybe he is a superhero in my eyes ... but he sure does n't have to put on a stupid maillot for that .
Angels who got a little icky were banned from heaven and now reside in a British forest where they seduce and chop up teens . Talk about high concept . On the plus side this little mother gives us Tom Savini , but since his acting range is limited to two minutes screen-time , his five minute presence seems a tad long . The angels run around the forest naked for the most part of the movie , but though they might have the body of an angel , their faces sure look like Joan Rivers on a bad day . Mediocre acting and amateurish gore-effects do n't help and the night scenes fatally recall Paris Hilton 's most famous movie . So bad that it is REALLY bad .
Well it 's not often that we in the UK have a film made about inner city life from the perspective of the Afro Caribbean community , the last example that I can remember was the underrated Babylon way back in 1980 . So I had high expectations when I heard about Bullet Boy , a film that has been touted as the British version of La Haine ! Well La Haine it is not ! I agree that the use of dialogue and environment gives this film an authenticity that has been missed in other British films of late , but my concern is that this film predictably ends sadly . The film intelligently deals with the escalating problem of black on black violence that is sadly all to common in London , but I 'm concerned that film makers now use type-casting in plot as opposed to characters which is equally as damaging . Saul Dibb had a great opportunity to make a film that could be both entertaining and inspirational to us all , but sadly missed and created a film that only reinforces the idea that to be a young black male in London the only future is violence & tragedy
there is no suspense in this serial ! When one episode ends the acting is so shoddy , the effects are so poor and the script is so awful that the last thing on your mind is how Batman and Robin will save the day . No , in fact , the last thing on your mind is watching the next episode ! This show is so boring that I ca n't see how it ever got made , let alone released on DVD ! Obviously the effects are not up to par with contemporary Batman films , but even the script is awful . An incoherent babbling mess about some evil professor and a ray gun or something like that , I am not quite sure , because it is too awful to follow . Watch the 60s version , or the 90 's versions , or even Batman Begins , just anything over this version !
OK OK , it might be hard to put the entirety of a man 's life in one film . Traditionally therefore , biopics focus on one or two significant parts in the subject 's life . Now , Byron was a `` my week beats your year '' fellow , which makes selecting parts that are representative even harder . Furthermore , just as Byron 's poetry is inseparable from his life , the man 's life itself must be seen as a whole . Lifting parts out is not only not showing the whole picture , it 's showing a different picture altogether . Now , in short my review comes down to this : supposedly , Byron was indeed the `` my week beats your year '' prototype , a guy who lived so intensely that he indeed did more in his 15 or so active years than most do in an entire lifetime . True , he had setbacks and was a victim of the time and social setting he lived in - but in the end , this dude is supposed to be the prototype whose life we 'd all want to lead , no ? Well , I did NOT , at ANY moment , want to live the life depicted in this film . So it gets 3 . Not for being so badly done ( which , direction-wise , it more or less was ) , but more importantly for missing the point entirely in a flat plot . Some more detail . Well , to over simplify things , a Byron bio should have two distinct episodes : 1 . Post-first Europe trip : England and his rise to fame + marriage / 2 . His life abroad . Now , the important thing is that the SECOND part should be at least as important as the first . Not only was it a lot longer , but the most significant change in Byron took place then . Furthermore , it 's where he created his best works ( Don Juan , the Vision of Judgement etc . - all the stuff that makes him *really* unique in English literature ) . Instead , in this film ( a ) Byron 's life never comes across as even remotely entertaining , ( b ) it only gets *worse* after he leaves England . They did two good jobs : first , they started at his return of his Europe trip ( though a bit more of the actual trip would have been welcome as a prologue ) , second , they chose an angle , and they chose his incestuous love for Augusta ( who is rather perfectly cast ) . The problem with this last thing is that they never let it go . True , Byron remained strongly attached to Augusta for the rest of his life , but , especially as he was such a mood swing person , the fact that his letters reflect that does not mean that at other times he might not have completely enjoyed life . Anyway , the first part of the TV film should have ended with him leaving England . There 's no doubt about that . The thing is : once abroad , a life of debauchery began ( with the infamous Geneva period ) , but in Italy Byron also discovered a new life , both for his poetry ( inspired by Italian comedy ) , already in Venice , and for himself when he found the Contessa Teresa Guiccioli and moved to Ravenna ( afterwards , at the request of Shelly , with Teresa , to Pisa ) . In other words , he was also *liberated* . His mind and life opened up ( and not only in the decadent sense ) , while England 's closed further as it fell into the gravitational pull of the Victorian age . True , freedom was Augusta-less , but this bitter-sweet freedom tastes sour in this film . We see a lonely , bored snob getting older . I mean , hell , Byron never thought much about his poetry , except when he finally found his own voice in Don Juan ! Apart from poetic and romantic developments , his relationship with Shelly ( and the down-break ) should have been more documented . Also , it is in Italy in Ravenna that he gets involved with politics and revolutionary ideas . This is important , as it shows that the decadent romantic and ultimately escapist language and person of Childe Harold is changing into the more planted-in-life realistic and lighter passion of the language and person of Don Juan . Life and work are one . True , still a bit naive , but it 's what got him to Greece ! And the whole thing came full circle in Pisa , where Shelley 's revolutionary spirit further ignited the spark . Missolonghi was n't the bored snob suddenly looking for some action . It was the insights in Italy ( the Gambas ) stirring him into action . It can be a symbol for the man looking for some ancient-style battle excitement while the rest of Europe becomes fixed in the clay of modern reason and conservatism . But it was n't just that , there was a true inspiration behind it . Meanwhile , Byron wrote massive amounts of Don Juan . True , his end is a bit sad , but it 's not like he 's worn out . THAT is the essence of Byron 's life : he may have had some strong emotional attachments ( 2 : Augusta and Teresa ) , but EVERY time he managed to reinvent himself truly . Meaning that he was n't 'less ' at the end of his life - no , he 'd made a physical and mental JOURNEY that , at the time , few people were prepared to make . I wonder . Why is it that so often the second period in Byron 's life is overlooked ? Because it had less obvious conflicts , as the man was finally coming to his own ? In focusing our attention on the frustrated England years fraught with scandals , we show ourselves to be not much better than the English aristocracy at the time , which Byron so despised , and which , despite the fact that he had no choice , he *willingly* fled in 1816 , to find a world that was modern and liberal enough to let him find the voice that would make him the first romantic plainspoken language poet and evolve from a self-obsessed snob to a passionate man moving onward with a cause .
I 'm not sure what HK movies the other reviewers have been watching , but Enter the Eagles is nowhere near the top of the heap in HK action . Michael `` Fitz '' Wong should be glad he can get acting jobs in HK , because he could n't act his way out of a wet paper bag in English . Shannon Lee looks good and is a fantastic fighter ( even better with the leg fighting than her dad ) , but her acting skills are also sub-par . In fact , all the English dialog ( 90 % of the movie -- even more than in Gen-Y Cops ) is so bad that I switched to Mandarin audio just to spare myself the misery of the bad dialog delivery and the redundancy of the English subs . Sure , there are some decent gunfights ( but nothing we have n't already seen before ) and good cinematography , but the cheesy visual effects really spoil the action . That said , it 's worth the price of admission to watch Shannon and Benny `` The Jet '' Urquidez go at it . Spectacular , and almost worth watching the rest of the movie for . Finally , you might notice some scenes that seem `` familiar '' to you , notably a shootout at an outdoor market ( think Matrix ) and Fitz diving out of a helicopter wearing black fatigues ( think MI:2 ) . Guess someone thought at least a few things in this flick were worth ripping off .
If this is a 2008 product from one of the biggest production houses of Indian Film Industry ( Yash Raj ) then I am afraid it is a very long ahead for us to reach the right standards . If you can go wrong to this length with such an enormous star cast of Anil , Akshay , Saif and Kareena , then movie making is still to be studied much harder by everyone associated with this film . The film lacks in almost all departments except cinematography and Akshay Kumar . He has a few good dialogues to render but that alone can not make you enjoy a flick with huge expectations . The first scene of a car going down into a river from the mountain has very cheap graphics like that of a cartoon film . That itself was a clear indicator of the director 's vision . Every actor who otherwise is an asset to a movie is simply wasted . Anil Kapoor 's gimmick of attempting good English falls flat most of the times . And Saif will surely hit himself thinking why he signed this movie . In short IT 'S THE BIGGEST WASTE OF RESOURSES AFTER `` JHOOM BARABAR JHOOM '' . I would say that even `` Aaja Nachle '' was a better enjoyable movie than this . One can not understand how and why this kind of script was written and approved . The most unwanted was the flashback sequence of Akshay 's love story . After the faulty script the weakest point of the movie is its music . Vishal Shekhar have given just some filler tunes to each song . The songs start off very well and suddenly the tunes drop drastically . Only one song `` Falak Tak Chal '' is somehow good of all in the lot . An opportunity wasted by Vishal Shekhar . Regarding the continuity intelligence of the makers just sample this : Akshay and Saif are on the road in the hilly area of a foreign Location ( probably Ladakh ) . In the next scene they are searching for Kareena in Haridwar and then back in the hills with Kareena in the dicky of their car . I am still thinking who wrote this . If you manage to sit till the last then the climax is too long with silly and unnecessary stunts . You can see all the heroes walking through the storm of bullets not hurt as if they are GOD . Are we still seeing a 2008 movie with all these technical heights achieved ? So no more words on this pathetic and downgrade movie but a sincere request to senior actors from their fan . Dear Anil Kapoor & Akshay Kumar , If possible please ask for a preview of your movies after their first copy is out . As artists of such stature , you have certain responsibilities towards your fans and viewers . People still clap for you as you enter the screen in your first scenes respectively . I think this kind of movie should not see the daylight as it hampers the reputation of all associated with the movie , the actors and the production house both .
The movie lacks credence with the helicopters which did n't exist until the 1950s . But no woman would do what was done here , even a woman before the women 's movement of the 60s and 70s . About the only portion of the movie that you could believe in was that Germany would want to know where the landing would be . Ignore for the moment that the British had captured all the spies but even if they had not , they would n't have let one roam around like this just to reassure the Germans that the landing would be at Calais . It is n't one major thing that makes the movie not work . It is the culmination of all the things wrong that makes the movie fail . Bad directing , bad scripts , no attempt at authenticity ( at all ) all combine to just make the movie fall flat . Generally speaking spies should fade into the woodwork . The suspense comes in with the spy wondering if the information they have is valid or not and worrying about being detected . On this one that game was over from the start . This spy was doing anything but spying . Your only chance at getting something that has some credibility and instills some suspense may be to read the book .
This movie was n't that bad when compared to the first two sequels to the original . It 's directed by Martin Kitrosser of Friday the 13th fame . The acting is very bad indeed , but the gore and special effects help make it interesting . Thats one thing I like about Screaming Mad George ( make up effects artist for the film ) , his effects are so off-the-wall and bizarre that they will keep you watching a bad movie just to find out how crazy they 're gon na get . The movie is n't really all that gory , but there is an EXTREMELY nasty eyeball-munching scene in the middle involving a toy maggot ( what ! ? ! ) Mickey Rooney makes a guest appearance that he probably was n't too enthusiastic about but needed the money at the time , possibly ? If you liked the weirdo 4th installment ( my favorite of all 5 ) , you 'll probably like this one . I liked it better than the Matrix ! Enjoy .
I was never so bored in my life . Hours of pretentious , self-obsessed heroin-addicted basket cases lounging around whining about their problems . It 's like watching lizards molt . Even the sex scenes will induce a serious case of narcolepsy . If you have insomnia , rent this .
Some might say something like `` Baby Geniuses '' with its giant robot infants or `` Dumbo '' with its psychedelic drug-addled nightmare sequence would win the award for the most disturbing movie ever made for children . You might say that too , but you 'd be wrong . Lo and behold , for I bring to you : Santa Claus , the most helplessly messed up family film since ... well , ever . From the opening scenes showing children from different parts of the world singing their insipid theme songs ( seriously , this segment is nearly 20 freakin ' minutes long and has nothing to do with the plot ! ) to the thrilling conclusion in which Merlin pops up from outta nowhere and saves the day ( do n't mind him , he 's from Barcelona ) , this is childhood trauma at its finest . And no matter how hard I try , no matter how many different therapists I visit , I just ... ca n't ... get ... those ... reindeer 's ... laughter ... out ... of ... my ... head ! Avoid this mind-bending piece of trash like you 'd avoid a sex-starved whale during mating season . Still , if flaming gay demons with a serious case of the overacting flu are something for you , I guess you should give it a try . But really , this movie is n't worth your time and mental health .
You know when you 're on the bus and someone decides to tell you their life-story , and you sit there with a pathetic smile on your face when all you really want to do is slap the fool and walk off ? Well I had a similar sensation while watching this film . Okay , I did actually choose to go and see Aprile , and I knew about Nanni Moretti 's taste for making himself the one and only star from Caro Diario , but after about half an hour of this latest installment from his memoirs I wanted to give Moretti the madre of all slaps . Caro Diario was funny , unusual , and at least a couple of other characters managed to get a word in edgeways . In Aprile , however , Moretti has exclusive rights to the dialogue , so that all you hear for an hour and a half is a high-pitched whine going on about how his politics are best , or what quirky piece of popular culture is tickling his fancy at the moment . He also finds time to slag off films that he does n't like , something I thought was reserved for losers like me . Surely being in a position like his you 'd think he 'd try and make a point about cinema a little more intelligently than this . By making a proper film perhaps , one with some ideas and a decent structure , or maybe one that is n't completely dominated by his annoying voice . And when he started fawning over his newborn baby , I just wanted to go and be in the company of someone normal , preferably not a self-obsessed film director with a strange penchant for tacky music . The next time someone you do n't know tries to tell you their life-story , give them a slap from me . Every blow will be a small victory in the fight against Morettiism .
What a terrible movie . Rotten tomatoes had a good rating for this too . do n't be fooled by the positive comments ; It was n't scary . It was n't funny . It was n't clever . It wo n't even hold your attention . I just wasted 2 hours of my life viewing this crap-fest . the computer generated monster was interesting to see the first couple times . after about 15 minutes it no longer entertained . the dialogue was terrible , must be a translation thing . another negative that stood out was the idiot Americans . 3 were portrayed and they were all lacking character , intelligence and judgment . Now I will write a couple of lines to pad this since we have to have 10 . The employees at the video store should have slapped me for bringing this title to the counter .
I tried to finish this film three times , but it 's god awful . Case in point : mom and daughter drive up to the bed and breakfast , mom stops for gas , crazy gas station weirdos mad at her hubby whose running the B & B try to rape her . She escapes , heads to B & B and instead of hubby going ballistic and she wanting to call the cops , story just continues with lukewarm behavior on both their parts . Wow . Other action logic deficits abound . Acting is also lukewarm , and the next door neighbor 's warning is delivered in a really corny , badly acted moment . Moments of intense gore/death unevenly interwoven with lukewarm scenes of time-filler interplay between characters . Less focus on gore , more focus on mood and story would have been appreciated .
This was just plain terrible . I read this book for school , i made As on all of the tests , and to see it like this ! My teacher forced me and 20 other people to watch it , and it was worse than Leonard Part 6 , Plan 9 from Outer Space , and Hudson Hawk put together . The thing that made this film so terrible was enough reasons to want to kill yourself over . First of all , it was made on Hallmark . Second , the acting was terrible . Third , it was like completely different from the book . Literally , it was so bad I asked myself to be excused . Basically , I would rather watch Basic Instinct 2 than watch this . Take my advice , do n't watch this film . No one would want to watch this . It was horrible . HORRIBLE !
Hopelessly inept and dull movie in which the characters stand around in rooms or a rocket ship and talk endlessly . You might think things would perk up when they explore Mars but these scenes are filmed through a heavy red/orange filter which makes everything very murky . The Martian landscape/vegetation consists mainly of drawings and the monsters are entirely unconvincing . There are echoes of 'Bride Of The Monster ' when the heroine carefully winds the octopus like tentacle of a flesh eating plant around her before weakly thrashing about , the difference being that the Ed Wood film is a hundred times more entertaining . Better wear earplugs when watching otherwise the 'sci-fi ' music score , repeated endlessly , will drive you insane . If you find yourself unable to sleep one night just slip this one into the VCR and your insomnia will be cured in no time .
yeah cheap shot i know , but this movie is a great example of how a collection of signifiers of 'deepness ' ( political turmoil , love/lust ) can be combined haphazardly to great critical acclaim ( see also 'american beauty ' ) . kaufman 's movie plods along with gratuitous sex scenes interspersed with often painful dialog sequences ( in one scene i counted three different 'generic European ' accents affected by the actors ) and displays of state might run amok , yet fails to tie them together into the coherent meditation kundera offered . and in its over-long three hours it manages almost completely to gloss over franz , the missing fourth piece in the love triangle that lies at the heart of the plot , and in this manner sacrifices the novel 's central mechanism of displaying the spectrum of emotions and of power relations that obtain in love affairs . it also fails to even include token screen time for tomas ' son , used in the novel to exemplify some of the political points kundera was making in the novel . combined with the overweening soundtrack , these flaws make this movie 's three hours unbearably weighty in tone yet light in content .
I had suspicions the movie was going to be bad . I 'm a Duke 's fan from way back . Have three years of the TV series on DVD . Well I was right . Took the family to see it . I really wanted to see the General jump again and some of the chase jump scenes were good . But to sum it up , the movie was a dumbed down tarted up version of the TV show . Jessica Simpson was pathetic . While I can honestly say that the original Daisy 's outfits were just as revealing , Jessica Simpson 's interpretation of Daisy was simply awful . Sorrel Booke and Denver Pyle must be rolling in their graves as well . Do n't waste your money . If you are an old tried and true Dukes fan like me and my three kids are you will be very disappointed .
I ca n't understand all the hype about this movie . OK , if you like cheap splatter , you will love this movie , but if you like good stories and good actors - do n't watch this . Personally i really disliked the actors in this movie , they seem to be hired straight from the street . The Dialogs are completely flat and you always know what 's coming up next . The overall quality of this movie lacks of the supposable very low budget . When we saw this movie ( me and 3 other people ) we all had in mind , that this movie was made by some people who needed to do this , just to get their graduation at a film school - with the lowest effort . Another issue that really lessens the whole experience is the bad cam ( very shaking ) and the bad sound , the whole movie seems to be recored with a single microphone .
Straight to the point : `` The Groove Tube '' is one of the most unfunny , unclever and downright horrible films ever made . This `` comedy '' is so void of anything remotely resembling a trace of wit that it 's almost incomprehensible that it was even made . I said almost because there are fans of everything after all . This film is n't even `` good '' bad or `` enjoyable '' bad . To put this movie on the same level of entertainment as `` Plan 9 '' or `` Robot Monster '' would be a crime to those films . Films like that you can actually watch and get a kick out of . But this film is SO bad , SO poorly made , acted and scripted and SO incredible stale , that there just is n't even a trace of `` camp '' or `` schlock '' to be found . Even though this was made before Saturday Night Live premiered , comparisons were probably inevitable . I 'm not a big fan of SNL , but this film is worse than the worst SNL skit you can find . And man , that 's BAD . Just to keep the men viewers from leaving , Shapiro throws in a pair of breasts every so often , but poorly-filmed breasts from 1974 are n't going to excite anyone these days . Truthfully this film is so poorly made and is such a sleep-inducing excursion , I doubt if they excited anyone in 1974 either . A man named Ken Shapiro made this film . I swear to God , any ten-year old with a video camera could have made something funnier and more clever . It 's just downright unreal - this is truly an unbelievable film . The `` jokes '' and `` gags '' are so infantile that even little boys who like to sneak dad 's porno mags out at night wo n't laugh . I will give this film one thing - the very last sequence , the `` dancing man '' sequence , where a guy ( Shapiro ) on the streets of NYC dances to a tune , is easily the best thing in this horrible film . Not that the `` dancing man '' sequence is that great either - it definitely has its moments of not being clever as Shapiro desperately tries to fill in the time for the entire song - but it actually was somewhat watchable . The part of this sequence where the cop starts dancing with the man is the one sole trace of cleverness in the entire film . No wonder Shapiro put this sequence last - again , while not so great itself , it easily beats anything else in this `` film . '' Otherwise , this film is such a complete piece of crap , it 's unfathomable as to how an actual human being can be so downright cleverless . The name of this film should have been `` Ken Shapiro 's Craparama . '' It 's amazing that this was made , but many truly talented filmmakers ca n't get in . However , I will say that I bet the geniuses at NYU would love this movie . Total garbage .
Only children below the age of 12 should be allowed to see this film . The rest of us should take a book , MP3 player , or just take a nice nap to endure the experience of this event . This can be best summed up as a `` blown-up '' TV movie being distributed into theaters . Children will want to see this film , and they will like and be amused by the movie .
I have been an environmentalist for years and was really looking forward to this show . I had it set to record all episodes because I thought I could really learn some great new things . I probably could if I could get past Rachelle . I 'm sure a lot of this is staged to seem like a reality show and appeal to that class of viewer . It does n't work for someone who 's really interested in improving the planet . This show should be called Nagging with Rachelle . Since Ed is such a great font of information , maybe a second show that 's really serious about the environment would be a good idea . Dumbing things down is not necessary for some of us . I no longer record episodes or watch the show , but do let me know if a real green show may be in the works .
A badly-acted two-character comedy-drama abruptly transmogrifies into a weren't-we-awful-to-the-Indians polemic , with lousy special effects , exploitative use of nudity , and ugly violence . It 's as sincere as a politician 's handshake , as obvious as a car salesman 's pitch , one of the worst movies in the history of the universe . Absolute and utter dreck .
She has been catapulted from 13 to 30 , with magic dust involved , courtesy the 13-year-old Matt , but nothing is made of that except as an unexplained device . New York City , especially Central Park , but also every other slice of the place incorporated into the movie , seems hope-filled and easily livable , and save for Lucy there 's no villain in Jenna 's adult life , and even Lucy is not cast as monstrous , only as a nasty 13-year-old grown 17 years more devious . Chris , the one-time boy object of Jenna 's yearning , is now a porky cab driver , and you have seen enough films to know that Matt will play a major role in Jenna 's future . You do n't know quite what might impede this before it is finally achieved , though I 'm here to whisper in your ear , so to speak , that the device is not unique . In fact , not only is this a variation on the theme of Tom Hanks ' `` Big , '' though nowhere near as fine , it is also a strictly by-the-book version of this subset of the Cinderella story .
It has a great name , but thats it and you wont get more than that for your money , in fact the first 30-40mins of the movie you might find it some kind of funny but after that the story goes from one side to another with no particular reason and you just cant understand whats happening until the action its gone . And yet the producers ( Roberto Angel Salcedo ) calls him an actor , but i do n't think the way he does could be called nothing but overacting ! ! ... .period . The little kid who plays as his son has totally no sense of acting and i believe it was just a favor he did or something because he had no clue of what he was doing . For some reason while doing the casting they thought that by casting comedians they could made it , but they did n't ! ! and sometimes the tasteless cheap humor its so bad , i do n't buy it . But hopefully this is as bad as it gets . To make people accept those DVD 's to the good taste public they will have to offer some food with it , that might work out . Maka
i am 13 and i hated this film its the worst film on earth i totally wasted my time watching it and was disappointed with it cause on the cover and on the back the film it looks pretty good , but i was wrong its bad . but when i saw delta she was totally different and a bad actress and i really did n't know how old the 2 girls was trying to be i was so confused . the film was in some parts confusing and i did n't enjoy it at all but i watched all the film just to see if it was going to get better but it did n't , it was boring , dull and did i say BORING.and i do n't think many other people liked it as well as me.boring boring boring
In one word : excruciating . I was advised to read some articles about this film 's philosophical meanings afterward , but , having sat through the movie 's interminable 115 minutes and being slowly crushed beneath its bloated symbolism and lava-flowing oppressiveness , it seemed better to just report my reactions to the movie . After all , who goes to see a movie with a syllabus in hand ? And this flick was dismal . Lead actor Claude Laydu , from the film 's opening to its end , wears the same wearying and annoying mask of agony as to be practically indistinguishable from the film 's eternal , dreary voice-over . Filming one over the other might have worked better than subjecting an audience to both , as they basically say the same thing : The priest of Ambricourt is a wretched human being . The story , about a persecuted priest who tries to help out a troubled rich family , does nothing toward making its characters remotely interesting or sympathetic , as the family are a bunch of unpleasant weirdos , and the priest , himself , comes across as a nosy pest . The last 30 minutes suggests some breath-taking message about grace and one man 's suffering equaling that of others , but due to all the indulgent close-ups of a suffering Laydu and the vague subtext in Robert Bresson 's script , all I felt was , Finally , it 's over , let 's have some ice-cream . Interesting for fans of Bresson fanatic Paul Schrader , just to see how many elements of character and setting Schrader carried into in his own scripts and movies , especially `` Taxidriver '' , `` Raging Bull '' and `` Light Sleeper '' .
I have to confess that I am severely disappointed . This version can in no way compete with the version of 1995 . The reason why I watched it was that I was n't entirely happy with Ciaran Hinds as Captain Wentworth and thought that Rupert Penry-Jones looked much more like the Captain I had imagined when I read the book . And he was too . Unfortunately that is the only redeeming quality of the film . The rest is as un-Austen-like as possible . Miss Elliot would NEVER have run through the streets of Bath like this . It was n't in her character and it just was n't done by a lady of the those times . The Anne Elliot of the book was a lady and she had dignity . There are other painful anachronisms but this was the worst . Although there are 3 important quotes from the book , they are at entirely inappropriate moments , warning those who know the book that yet another important part of the book will either be missing or completely changed . And although this version is not much shorter than the other one , it feels like everything is rushed . Very little care was taken to introduce the characters , show their dispositions and motives . Important scenes were omitted . How could they possibly have butchered the final scenes in this way ? A disaster ! And it was by far not as beautifully photographed as the other one . No , no , no . If you love Austen , then do n't waste your time with this .
Two days after seeing this thing , I 'm still in agony over HAVING seen it . It 's so bad , you have to wonder how anyone could write this tripe , much less allow it to be loose on the general public . Stilted acting , a leading man who looks like he 's sleepwalking , and Alison Eastwood embarrassing herself . The action is indicative of low budget movie making , which means it is painfully bad . The plot ? Well , if you were 6 years old , then you could have written this movie . Simplistic , idealistic , and just plain lame .
There is just one word for this film . Appalling . The director clearly has talent but like his character Robert Carmichael he throws it all away . Carmichael has potential , but like Cray he ca n't be bothered to use it . Being drawn into petty crime and then descending into depravity is Cray 's vision of British youth . Like the British tabloids this film portrays young people with no aspirations or respect . Cray cries out for attention , but deserves none . I was appalled by the act of violence that Cray chose to shove in the faces of the audience . He assumes the audience are ignorant of world atrocities . Like a piece of obscene graffiti on a toilet wall he shows us male depravity with adolescent glee . Some actors of quality have small parts in this film . Danny Dyer and Leslie Manville both make short appearances . The acting is otherwise amateur , the young men Joe and Ben are cringe making . Carmichael played by Daniel Spencer is creepy . Miranda Wilson plays Monica , the attractive wife of celeb chef Jonathon ( Michael Howe ) ; how she was able to subject herself to such an ordeal is beyond belief . The film is never subtle and Monica is treated to the most gratuitous violence which is cut with war action . War imagery is used to convey the idea that young men can not help themselves , that acts of violence will occur within even `` civilised '' countries . This is most certainly true and is symptomatic of our altered society where males have an increasingly less important position , but Cray descends to the level of the barbaric males he seeks to expose through his use of such brutal and violent images . The female characters in the film offer no relief . They are either victims or in Manville 's case a washed out mother . The community is represented as dysfunctional . This is Cray 's first film . I listened to what he had to say during a Q and A session at Edinburugh and he is not unintelligent , he simply lacks experience and his film exposes his naivety . The film is due to be released later this year , but I hope the company goes bust cos the public really do n't need this kind of messed up material .
As usual , i went to watch this movie for A.R.Rahman . Otherwise , the film is no good . Rajni wanted to end his movie career with this film is it would be successful . But fortunately or unfortunately the film was a failure . After this he delivered a hit with Chandramukhi . I Am eagerly waiting for his forth coming Shivaji . I have read the other user 's comment on Rajni . I found it interesting as the user is from TN too . Rajni is one actor who acts , i think , from his heart not from his mind . He is not a method actor like Kamal Hasan . I think we need to appreciate Rajni for his strong going at his age . Any ways , i need to fill 10 lines for this comment ... so wish u good luck Rajni ... ... ... ..
The movie is a total crap . We have two good actors who are miscast and a meat-head of an actor Salman Khan just to attract the female audience . The story is a crap . The characters poorly sketched . Non existent story telling . No editing to speak of . Ajay Devgan as a Rock Star..that is a dream in itself . The movie drags along to the point of decadence . The whole charade about Arjun bringing his Manna to London , let him grope his girlfriend and let him not play at Wembley ( Vimbley in the dubbing process ) is absurd . Salman Khan 's over the top acting or faking is too painful to watch . I remember seeing some good movies from this Producer Vipul Shah but this is not one of them . It seems all the good directors are falling prey to the Box Office mania..that the Mumbai Media Morons have created . This is yet another crap movie in the lines of `` Wanted '' with idiot actor like Salman Khan who has no place in a Good Hindi Cinema . He is good to the Indian Cinema as Titanic was to the Winter Cruise Business . On a positive note-I like Asin character dancing Bharatnatyam when she changes to the Western style dancing when the teacher is not looking .
Heavily re-edited and often confusing , the original screen version of Man On Fire was at least ten years out of date when it was made and the passing years have n't made it any better . This is the kind of movie that producers with too much money and too little experience make to get attention and everyone else does just to pay off their outstanding alimony or their drug dealer , with Scott Glenn 's bodyguard going out on a limb to rescue his 12-year-old charge , the kidnapped daughter of a wealthy Italian family . An interesting cast - Joe Pesci , Brooke Adams , Danny Aiello , Jonathan Pryce - have all done better , the action is sluggish and sparse and only John Scott 's exceptionally fine score ( part of which turned up in the last reel of Die Hard ) makes a positive impression . One case where the remake ( made by Tony Scott , the original choice of director for this version ) is an improvement .
Ah yes , the VS series , MVC2 being the pinnacle . It 's been said before , this is what you get when half of the crew fell asleep on the job , unfortunately the gameplay half did . Do n't get me wrong , this is fun , but you get tired of mashing buttons . As for the plot summary , AHAHAHAHAHAAAAA ... There is no plot . Beat that guy at the end and win ! Eh , who plays this by their self anyway ?
I bought this DVD for $ 1 at Walmart . After seeing it , I might just return to the store and try to get my money back ! The only reason I gave the movie a 2 and not a 1 is that the story has a few novel story elements , though it really never rises to the level of being interesting . This film has all the earmarks of being a made for the drive-in theaters market -- ultra-low budget , amateurish acting and a liberal dose of sex ( for an early 60s film ) . In fact , I wonder if perhaps the only reason the film was made was to make a fast buck AND because someone knew some strippers they could use as extras . The film is about a wacko doctor who wants to transplant his girlfriend 's severed head onto the body of an unsuspecting donor . Most of the potential donors are skanky strippers or a model -- whose only real purpose in the film is to titillate as they remove most of their clothes . However , they keep too much on to make the movie even worth watching for the naughty bits and the film is n't quite awful enough to merit watching by bad film buffs .
I rated this a 3 . The dubbing was as bad as I have seen . The plot - yuck . I 'm not sure which ruined the movie more . Jet Li is definitely a great martial artist , but I 'll stick to Jackie Chan movies until somebody tells me Jet 's English is up to par .
and it did . It is through my experience that when a horror film reaches `` franchise '' status , and subsequent titles are released thereafter , they all , in turn , become stricken by one inevitable factor : irrelevance . Omen IV : The Awakening makes no exception to this rule , featuring another small child supposedly embracing their role as the Anti-Christ , foretold by a religious prophecy . Have n't we seen this before ? Was n't it enough that , over the span of three films prior to this release , we 've experienced the rise and fall of Damien Thorn ? If you 're a horror enthusiast such as myself , you 'll realize that it 's common for a horror movie that has many sequels and prequels to its credit to fade away into redundancy - Children of the Corn , Hellraiser , Phantasm ; the list goes on . At this point in the game , I 'm sure you know what to expect when you 're prepared to view the fourth title in a series . Regardless , there are times when you sit back and realize how shameless some filmmakers are . Omen IV : The Awakening is just that , too - a shameless money making exercise . This film does not offer anything new or intriguing to the Omen lineup . As unique and genuine as Omen IV tries to be compared to its siblings , the similarities and plot devices are embarrassingly alike . Elements like the guardian dog , the involvement of a priest , the skepticism of the people involved , the decapitation death scene ( clearly a homage to the original film when the journalist is beheaded by the sheet of glass ) ... even right down to the father 's involvement in politics and prestige within the community make it too predictable . Although it is common to star a B-Rated cast into a horror title this far into a series , the acting is off the charts , chock-full of ridiculousness and unintentional humor due to some of the poorly delivered lines throughout this film . The atmosphere has completely vanished in comparison to the first three titles . In addition , the epic score composed by Goldsmith in the previous movies has been replaced by an auditory debacle ; an absolute joke , and made me wonder if it was actually intended to be used for this film or just pulled from a `` bank '' of stock audio ... which really says something , because rarely do I comment on the lousy misuse of a musical score - until now . All in all , I 'd call Omen IV : The Awakening a failure . In the world of horror movies that carry a long list of titles behind them , some manage to hit the mark and some do n't . If you 're interested in creating another notch on your weathered horror belt such as I am for completion purposes , perhaps you could carve this title into it as well - if not for entertainment value , then to appreciate when a film is executed properly , or poorly .
Whether any indictment was intended must be taken into consideration . If in the year 2000 there were still rifts of feeling between Caucasian and Afro-Americans in Georgia , such as shown in this film , obviously there remains a somewhat backward mentality among a lot of people out there . It is rather hypocritical , to say the least , if everyone adores Halle Berry , Whoopie Goldberg , Beyoncé , Noemi Campbell , Denzel Washington , Will Smith , et . al. , whilst out in the backs there persist manifest racial divides . White grandmother suddenly gets black grand-daughter thrust upon her , only to meet up with black grandfather in a very white social backwater . The story is sweet , not lacking tragic overtones , and eminently predictable as in most of these kinds of TV films , though the final scene has you guessing ... ... ... ... will he ? wo n't he ... ... . ? Gena Rowlands in her typical style offers a sincere rendering , and Louis Gossett is a good match for her ; the little Penny Bae fortunately does not steal the show . A ` nice ' way of relaxing after Sunday lunch without having to force your mind too much , though you might just find yourself having a little siesta in the middle of it .
This movie proves that good acting comes from good direction and this does not happen in Ask the Dust . Colin Farrell is usually a fine actor but in this he is juvenile . Donald Sutherland comes across as an amateur . Why ? Because the script is awful , the adaptation is awful and the actors seem bored and half hearted . The atmosphere of the movie is bad - I could only think when it would finish and I turned it off half way . The director has done a very poor job and even though I have not read the novel it is certainly a missed chance . The atmosphere this film is trying to evoke and the message and storyline never reaches the audience . In one word , it is a TERRIBLE film .
The makers of this film have created a future where not only is abortion and birth control illegal in every state , but women are prosecuted for murder and sent away to serve long prison sentences.In other words , this film is every liberals worst nightmare ! The political agenda is so heavy-handed here and the style of the film is so low-key that it just loses steam pretty quickly.Regardless of which side of the fence you 're on , I 'd recommend skipping it .
******SPOILERS****** The unfunny radio quiz show host Kyser and his mediocre band are the excuse for Lugosi , Karloff , and Lorre to pick up a paycheck in this bland , sporatically watchable haunted house spoof . Lugosi is a mystic whose seances are exposed as a fraudulent attempt to bilk an heiress ' fortune ; Karloff is the butler and Lorre is a professor who exposes fake mediums , but it turns out that they 're both in conspiracy with Lugosi . Of course , Kay Kyser and his band of 30-something year old `` kids '' uncover the truth with the minimum of possible humor along the way . Not recommended to any but the absolute horror completist .
Usually I love Lesbian movies even when they are not very good . I 'm biased , I guess ! But this one is just the pits . Yes , the scenery and the buildings are beautiful , and there is a brief but beautiful erotic interlude , but otherwise this movie is just a complete waste of time . Annamarie alternates between sulking and getting high/stoned/passing out on whatever drug or booze is handy , and Ella inexplicably puts up with this abominable behavior through the entire movie . At no time are we given any insight into why this is so , or even why Annamarie is so depressed and withdrawn . If there had at least been some kind of closure in the ( potentially romantic ? we do n't even know ! ) relationship between the two , there might have been some kind of satisfaction . But although Annamarie at one point asks Ella `` why do you love me ? '' Ella does n't even acknowledge this . It 's never really clear whether this is anything more than an ( ill-behaved ) Lesbian on a boring road trip with a straight woman . Even the interactions between the two women and the local people they meet on the journey , which could have been lively and informative , are instead flat , tedious and mostly incomprehensible . There is one good joke in the movie , although I 'm sure it was unintentional . The women travel in a two-seat Ford coupe with a middling sized trunk . Yet when they set up camp , they have an enormous tent , cots , sleeping gear , and even a table , chair , and typewriter ! On top of that , when they board a ferry , we see piles of luggage , presumably theirs , presumably also carried in the little Ford 's trunk ! And through the entire film , we never see one gas station , or anywhere that looks like it would actually have any place to buy gasoline . Mostly they travel through endless miles of desolate desert . So where did they get fuel ? There may not be too many Lesbian films out there , good or bad , but there are plenty that are better than this , and very few that are worse . Leave this one in the rack .
*****WARNING , MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS WHICH WILL BE MORE ENTERTAINING THAN THIS TRIPE . **** Heres some good advise to anyone living in the U.K . Whenever Channel 5 has an old 80 's comedy on late at night , read a book instead . I am currently in the process of recovering from a seizure , due to reading some of the comments on this film on here . I am actually shocked at the fact that someone actually said this film was realistic ! All I can say is thank god the Cold War never escalated or else we might as well have given the Commie 's our borders ... I found this film dire in the utmost pretence , maybe it is just my British perception of what makes a film funny , who knows ? But in all aspects , this film is not just awful , its teeth grindingly terrible . I 've never been a fan of Bill Murray , and its rubbish like this that justify my feelings towards him . Do n't get me wrong , I loved Ghostbuster 's , which was made only three years after this film . But this just sums Bill Murray up really . I can safely say that I have n't wasted my time so blatantly like this since seeing the first running of Operation Delta Force over here , though these two films have more in common than you would think . For 1 thing , they both have terrible action sequences from beginning to end , and 2nd . They are both riddled with cheesy Cliché 's , throughout . Heres one thing , these guys are supposed to be in the `` U.S Army '' . Yet they are allowed to wallow around their Camp , Willy nilly , seducing female Military Police Officers , and subsequently shagging them silly in the Generals Quarters . Talk about Random ! This film is just terrible for this I 'm afraid . Now do n't get me wrong , I 'm no feminist sympathiser , but the fact that these two women actually fall hands over heels in love with the two characters shortly after arresting them , letting them go free ... Twice , is just insulting to the female race . The fact that one tatty haired , fat lipped bum ( Winger ) and his hapless sidekick Ramis can simply sweet talk themselves into into the MP 's underwear , to which they fall madly in love with the two of them is nothing short of ludicrous . Then there is the training scenes , where you get to meet the Squad `` Phycho '' who unconvincingly threatens to kill anyone who touches him or his stuff , followed by the overweight bloke ( played by the late and great John Candy ) who claims he joined the army to `` avoid paying $ 400 for anger management classes '' . Leading to loud mouthed Murray paying tribute to the `` Giant Toe , '' ( WTF ? ) 'Drill Seargent ' who honestly could n't organise a pi $ $ up in a brewery , let alone his band of recruits . All this scene serves to do is to prelude loads of fight scenes , with people saying `` way to go ass hole ' ! '' all the time , etc etc . The scenes then carry on showing the rag tag bunch making utter tits of themselves on the Assault Course , leading to a scene where one of them shoots wildly into the air at some passing birds with an assault rifle , peppering a watch tower with bullets . ( Just like that . Yep , told you this film was random ... He miraculously escapes undisciplined as well ... ) Eventually Leading up the the passing out parade , where the hapless squad make a magic turn around within the space of two hours . ( Bugger me , Miracle ! ) Thanks to some wise words from Murray , to which they then direct a massively none military like dance routine in front of a Geriatric 'General ' in front of the rest of the squads . All of this to the immense pleasure of their two Girlfriends on the stand , who really should 've been arresting them ... Everyone laughs it off though . This bit is nothing short of amazing though . He then chooses them to guard a new Multi-Million Dollar Prototype Armoured Vehicle in Italy ( which turns out to be just a mobile home painted green with loads of gadgets on the inside ) , claiming `` This is exactly what this Army needs ! '' righto ... Then there is the dire finale , where Murray and Ramis decide to steal this top-secret prototype Military Vehicle to pick up their newly acquired and somewhat Hyperactive MP Girlfriends in Germany . To which the Hapless Captain ( John Larroquette ) then finds out and leads the Squad of fresh recruits on a retrieval Mission for this vehicle . To which they then take a `` wrong turn '' en-route and end up in Soviet Held Czechoslovakia , where they are captured . ( Like we did n't see that coming ... ) Thus begins a rescue attempt by Ramis and Murray + Birds in hand , to which is where a big fight , loads of shooting from the hip and blowing tanks up . With them coming back as National Heroes , humiliating the Russians by calling them `` pussies , '' etc etc . The end . Thats right . No Courts Martial , nothing . They only just stole a prototype Military vehicle , drove it into a Warsaw Pact country and almost caused an International incident which could 've sparked WW3 ! This film is honestly more fun that being diagnosed with a terminal illness . I know its meant to be a Comedy , it got all the right actors for it , but where in the hell is it ? Have Channel 5 cuts those bits out ? The only redeeming feature in this film is the repetitive use of naked women taking showers , and female Mud Wrestling . ( like I said , Random ) Not that it helps to divert from the fact that this is an utterly crap film , of course . This film should realistically be aimed at immature 9 year old 's , sadly , we have to watch it instead . 1 star out of 10 - Total Tripe . My advice , do something a little more useful with your time . Like Castrating yourself ...
This film was probably inspired by Godard 's Masculin , féminin and I urge you to see that film instead . The film has two strong elements and those are , ( 1 ) the realistic acting ( 2 ) the impressive , undeservedly good , photo . Apart from that , what strikes me most is the endless stream of silliness . Lena Nyman has to be most annoying actress in the world . She acts so stupid and with all the nudity in this film , ... it 's unattractive . Comparing to Godard 's film , intellectuality has been replaced with stupidity . Without going too far on this subject , I would say that follows from the difference in ideals between the French and the Swedish society . A movie of its time , and place . 2/10 .
The acting in the film is really well done honestly , but the movie is so slow and so boring , as soon as it gets interesting everything slows to a major halt . I am glad to see Sam Rockwell in this , he did a great job , so did the other actors as I mentioned but man ... this is one of the worst dragged out films I have ever seen . Now maybe in a short film form this movie would be good , but other than that , avoid it . This film has so much filler it makes a Twinkie cake jealous . I never , ever , walk out on films , but watching this one at home with family , I walked out . Yeah , it was that boring . Apparently my comment does n't have enough lines to post , so here 's some more filler . I guess I was inspired by the movie I just watched .
I chose to see this movie because it got a good score here on IMDb . But a lot of people either have really poor taste or someone 's been fixing the score . Either way it was a real disappointment . The movie is exactly as stupid and far fetched as the title would suggest . There really is no reason to give a summary of the plot - but here goes : it felt like someone had been thinking : `` Would n't it be cool to make a movie where there were snakes on a plane ? And then the snakes for some reason would go crazy and start biting and stuff ? ! ? '' And that 's about it ! The plot is thin and unoriginal . The snakes are bad CGI ( but it makes sense to cut corners on a movie that no one in their right mind will recommend to anyone ! ) . The acting is poor , and all people are unbelievable stereo types . To sum it up : It 's one of the worst movies I 've ever seen - stay away !
This is the worst movie I have ever seen in my entire life . The plot and message are horrible . There are too many mistakes in this movie that it 's impossible to keep up . I do n't even understand how this movie can get any nomination , let alone 2 . Here 's why : 1 ) Sam Lee portrays a angry/irrational detective which was caused by the disappointment from his dad . Pros : He 's angry alright . Cons : When it comes to the explanation scene , he can not convey the sadness/disappointment he has in his father . The crying scene was too fake and it seems like he is literally squeezing out tears from the corner of his eyes . 2 ) To connect the movie to the title , there were barking or dog wimping sounds during the fight scenes and rape scene , which is totally irrelevant and confusing to the viewer . I understand that it 's supposed to be a metaphor or what not ... but it 's just sooo dumb ! 3 ) WHY THE HECK DID THE COPS NOT SHOOT THE KILLER ? What the heck is wrong with this movie . When the killer started stabbing an officer , SHOOT him . He 's already dead ! What the heck ? There were lots of opportunity that the killer could be killed , but I do not know why he was n't ! 4 ) During the scene where the girl had her foot hurt . In the scene , it was very clear that the LEFT foot of the girls was hurt , so how the heck in the next scene that she 's lending all her weight on her left foot ? And this is the actress nominated as the best new performer ? WTF ? 5 ) The sounds in the movie are off sync . 6 ) I am guessing that this movie is trying to bring awareness of the brutality and violence among children in South East Asia , so why does the bad guy wins and then the cop was joining the fight ? 7 ) This movie is just too violent without a purpose . Cops are beating CI to a pulp and then if they cooperate , they give them marijuana and coke ? This is overall the worst movie . I truly feel that the person who wrote this movie is a sadist and sick person . I have never seen a more disgusting movie in my whole entire life . WORST MOVIE EVER !
Whatever the merits of the film , it is poorly researched . As others have pointed out , the movie shows locals in Iran speaking in Arabic , rather than Persian . That is enough to lose credibility for anyone who has the slightest knowledge of the area or the country . The landscape could not be more different from the actual . Other factual errors : A train is shown to be operating in Afghanistan , while Afghanistan does not have railways . The Turkish ambassador is wearing a Fez ( the red hat ) , whereas the Fez was banned by Turkey much before the time in which the movie is set . The Turkish ambassador 's daughter is actually dressed as an Indian , and Indian classical music is playing in the background in many scenes . I suppose the filmmakers meant to show an exotic woman , and sari was what they decided would make her exotic .
It would help to know why it took so long for a book as movie-ready ' as `` The House Next Door '' to be adapted for film or television . The book was copyrighted in 1978 . One reason could be problems designing 'the house ' . The house in this Lifetime film is really so ugly that I ca n't imagine anyone buying it . In fact it 's so ugly that someone would probably have come and destroyed it as soon as it was built . I 'm not crazy about horror genre books , but this one was hard to put down when I came across it around ten years ago . The main characters are not the kind of people to look for anything occult in life , and this is one of the book 's strengths . They are not people who would conclude that the architect was some type of demon.. ( or the devil personified ) without witnessing and analyzing the events described so well in the book . However , it is a downbeat book for the most part , and I do n't think that appeals to the people who run Lifetime . Maybe someone will come up with another version of the book in years to come . A better house..better music..a better screenplay and darker lighting ... would certainly help .
Private Practice is supposed to be a medical drama . So I guess my biggest complaint is the lack of originality in the medical story lines . Just by watching House , I `` solved '' two ( out of nine ) medical mysteries before the doctors did . Boooring . Seriously , if you are a lazy writer , why not copy some cases out of older ER episodes or some obscure Brazilian medical soap ? House is recent and popular - recycling their ideas is hard to get away with ... Second biggest complaint : these people are supposed to be forty-somethings , right ? Then why do they have to behave with the emotional maturity of 15-year-olds ? Is three weeks ( ie . three whole damn episodes ) of intense thinking really necessary to understand that if your best friend does n't want to be your `` friend with benefits '' , it 's maybe not because he wants to hurt you , but because he does n't want to risk your friendship ? The character doing all the thinking is a psychiatrist by the way - the whole storyline is just so unrealistic that you ca n't really buy into the supposed `` drama '' . And I wo n't even start complaining about what the show did to everyone 's favorite Addison as we got to know her in Grey 's Anatomy ... On a sidenote , do n't you think it 's funny the way Addison ends up lusting after loser Pete ( sorry , but everyone who tries to cure insomnia with Mozart 's Requiem is a loser , PhD or not ) and Derek ends up entangled in a relationship with whiny , irritating Meredith miles away in rainy Seattle ? Apart from that little fling with Mark , they seemed to be perfect for each other . Sometimes I think Shonda Rhimes ' subconscious is trying to tell us that in relationships , our first choice is often the right one ...
I think its time for Seagal to go quietly into the night . What I have just seen makes all his direct to video releases in the last few years look like his early 90 's smash hits in comparison . A secret bio lab is making a new kind of drug that jacks up a human 's adrenaline system to the point where they become psychopathic killers or something . Somehow Seagal is supposed to stop the infection or its the end of the world ... or something . Seagal also went through hit squads like jellybeans , every time I look up he was commanding a new face so it kinda got hard to follow character development as well I know Steven 's athsma prevent him from yelling at the top of his lungs but even so why is he constantly being dubbed by people who sound nothing like him ? Usually the films plot and action sequences can save it from being a total waste of time but this was not even close . Like I said , it was more of a horror movie with a lot of blood and shank stabbing rather than straight up fighting . The problem was it was n't really scary and Seagal looked completely out of place because the infected people were supposed to have speed of light movement yet the 40 year old 280 lb Seagal killed them all singlehandedly ? I guess the lone highlight of the movie was the first 20 minutes where the new recruits ask Seagal to come to the strip club with them . 2 out of 10
Gloria Victor and Dolores Reed in space girl costumes . I love 50 sci fi , I even love cheesy 50s sci fi , but this film is really , really bad . And not in a MST3K kinda way . Virtually unwatchable as a couple of bozos do their best `` hip cat '' impression of Abott & Costello . Chessecake can usually save cheesy sci fi , such as in `` Cat Women On The Moon '' but it ca n't in this case . This film requires a mute button and fast forward feature . That said , I could watch Gloria and Dolores walk around the space ship for about an hour or so .
I watched an episode . Yes I sat through the entire miserable experience , and I have to say , this brand of comedy is one of the worst you will get . Imagine Peter Griffin , of Family Guy fame . Now imagine Peter Griffin as a ( admittedly slim and minus the glasses ) woman , except that he now lacks the something that made him hilarious . Peter Griffin is an idiot , but he does n't know he 's an idiot . Sarah has none of the genuine character , none of the acting ability to pull her character off . Maybe its the trite , formulaic jokes that pull her comedy even lower than her character can take it by herself . Maybe it 's the lack of believable foils . Her insensitive , bigoted persona may appeal to insensitive , bigoted people unlike the mass appeal that Stephen Colbert 's insensitive , bigoted character has . Like Bill O'Reilly , Sarah creates an annoying , unfunny character . She lacks something that is necessary for the genre of satire , let alone for the entire world of comedy . What Sarah Silverman lacks , its noticeable . And when you do n't believe it and identify with it , it 's not funny anymore .
As many agree , Origin is a beautiful anime artistically . The music , graphics , and the world created are gorgeous and it really stands above most other modern animated works . However , if you are looking for more than this , than I suggest looking else where . The beauty stops short of its appearance , and when it really comes down to plot and characters , there 's nothing special . Action is slow and minimal and the people are flat , corny at times , and do not act realistically . Not to mention the plot hole here and the plot hole there ... So , in summary , oh my goodness , I 've never seen an anime as beautiful as this one ; and oh my goodness , it 's like ... -poke- people do n't act like that . It took a GIANT step forward in graphics and music in anime , but it also took a few step backs to times of bad characterization , and unfortunately , there 's not even that much action to make up for that ...
This was my first , and probably the last Angelopoulos movie . I was eager to get into it , as it featured Mastroianni , one of my favorite actors and was a film By Theo , of whom I 've heard a lot . The opening was promising , a long shot over a jeep of soldiers across the Albanian-Greek border . OK ! but that was all . Nothing left . The movie had big holes and I do n't know which to mention first . The main plot of the story is revealed to the journalist by the old woman . during a long walk . It 's like a 15 minutes monologue , killing the action and viewers patience , nothing happening on screen for 15 or even 20 minutes , apart this old lady telling a story . All that is presumed to be shown through action , was simply told to the camera by the old lady . In a moment , the equippe of TV was heading to the bar . They turn the corner and immediately the winter begins ! Probably , shot in different days , continuity leaked . A lot of problems with the story-telling , it went from absurd to irrational never sticking to a style , making the viewer asking questions that never got answers . Poor Mastroianni , given a role which lacked integrity or charm . On the other hand , as many Greeks or Albanians or Balcan people would agree with , the movies showed lot of historic , ethnic , or politically incorrectness , just for the sake of making a movie about `` humanity '' as a red in another review . A lot more to say , but no time to lose on a poor movie , which was not movie at all , but lunacies of a person impressed on film and paid with state money .
After reading some very good reviews about this film I thought I would give it a watch and after being very disappointed with the film I thought I would give it my own review . This is my first ever so bare with me . First of all I would scratch horror from the genre as in no way is it horrific or scary in the slightest ( with the exception of a few feeble attempts to make you jump unfortunately one of which worked on me . ) I would say that calling this film a thriller is pushing it as I was n't particularly thrilled either ! The film is about a spoiled mischievous girl who faints a few times . During these times she visits a house which she has been drawing , after each visit she decides to add something else to the house to make it a bit more lively one of the features being a sad little boy who is also ill in reality . As she befriends the boy she realises that her imaginary world that she created is actually better than the real world that she is in . Until she adds her constantly away father to the house , due to a misdrawing her dad turns out to be evil and her and the boy must escape from his clutches . Think its an attempt to be a slightly more mellow version of A Nightmare On Elm Street but is more like a trip to the beach . In conclusion my generous 3/10 will hopefully stop at least one of you from watching this drab !
This , for lack of a better term , movie is lousy . Where do I start ... ... Cinemaphotography - This was , perhaps , the worst I 've seen this year . It looked like the camera was being tossed from camera man to camera man . Maybe they only had one camera . It gives you the sensation of being a volleyball . There are a bunch of scenes , haphazardly , thrown in with no continuity at all . When they did the 'split screen ' , it was absurd . Everything was squished flat , it looked ridiculous . The color tones were way off . These people need to learn how to balance a camera . This 'movie ' is poorly made , and poorly done . The plot - You got to be kidding . If I was an SS agent , I 'd sue the producers . looked like the Marks Brothers with radios and guns . Sutherland was in his '24 ' mode - I can see this for free . Eva Longoria would have been better with a little less on , and a lot more showing . As an action bimbo she was n't much . I could n't see a real plot , other than Douglas boinking the Presidents wife . Never did say why the mercenaries were trying to kill the pres . I just do n't see the President of the United States running for his life in the utility tunnels of a building , like a rat in a maze . p-l-e-a-s-e. Hollywood is dead . This movie is the proof . I like 'the big screen ' . Have since I was a kid . Many more 'movies ' like this and I 'll quit going . Whats the matter Hollywood , made so many chick flicks , forget how to make a real movie ? If I owned a theater , I 'd start running the old movies . The one with real actors , good story lines - and good Cinemaphotography . This 'movie ' is a dog . Do n't waste your time or money on it . I rate this 'movie ' a zero ! Douglas is n't suited for this role . I can over look his age , but his just is to much of a wimp to carry this off .
Hee hee hee . This movie is so bad that it does n't even try to hide the fact that it sucks big time . I remember the day I first saw this on MST . Sun was shining , looked like a good day . then , I saw this product of Rick Sloane which consisted of horrible plush dolls wreaking havoc in the crappy 80s fest land . Kevin , wussy extraordinaire , tries to impress his girlfriend , manages an assistant security guard job , fights with rakes , and plenty more stuff in this very badly made series of images . No plot or story is needed . Obviously no acting is necessary as the film proves . An army guy and his sex crazed girl will make you wan na leap off a cliff , and the dorky friend who gets his kicks off phone sex will make you say , `` He has got some nice red shorts '' . Plus , I really hated the old security guard and wished he had an accident in his supermarket cart . Just when you think it 's over , wait until the Club Scum scene . Ask for Road Rash . I advise that after viewing this film , a good month to regain senses and sanity . And if you see Rick Sloane , give him a good kick to the groin to show how much we appreciate this crapsterpiece called Hobgoblins .
When I started watching this movie I saw the dude from Buffy , Xander , and figured ah how nice that he 's still making a living acting in movies . Now a weird movie I can stand , given that it 's a good dose of weird like for example David Lynch movies , twin peaks , lost highway etc . And you sort of have to be in the mood for one . This one however made me mockingly remember the crazy websites about there about conspiracy theory 's that make absolutely no sense . I mean come on people Nazi 's who conspire with America to make an unholy trinity of evil powers ? I was surprised they did n't mention the hollow earth in this movie with Hitler flying saucers and lizard people . Maybe if you had like 60 grams of heroine with this movie it would make some sort of sense , but seriously I do n't condone drugs like I do n't condone this movie . It should be burned , shredded and forgotten just so good ol ' Xander might get another acting job . It was n't his acting though , that was alright , but the script just did n't make any sense . Sorry .
I 've noticed how all the other reviews of this film mention how `` wholesome '' and `` entertaining '' it is . These people need to get out of the house more often . I do n't know why they 're shilling for this vapid , insipid , brainless piece of fluff . Pat Boone has absolutely no acting talent whatsoever , and his ineptness is exceeded only by that of his co-star Pamela Austin , a former model ( yet one more reason to outlaw the insidious practice of inflicting talentless models on an unsuspecting moveiegoing public , a foul habit that unfortunately persists to this day ) . A good supporting cast ( Terry-Thomas , Edward Everett Hortyon , among others ) tries hard to make some sense out of this , but to no avail . I noticed that two directors shared credit , although `` credit '' is n't the word I would use ( neither is `` director '' ) . As for `` wholesome entertainment , '' there are plenty of those types of movies available without torturing your loved ones by forcing them to sit through this . Find one of those films , and skip this one .
Wow , the plot for this film is all over the place ! There is so much plot and so many things that happen that it practically made my head spin ! ! And , as a result , none of it seemed particularly believable . The movie starts with Kay Francis as a housewife living in a small town . She 's had some experience with local theater and has ambitions of going to Broadway . When a big-time actor arrives in town , she pursues him in hopes that he can give her a career boost . But , her husband is worried about shenanigans -- as this actor is a cad . So , the hubby bursts in on them and hits the actor -- and the actor dies ! As a result , he 's convicted of First Degree Murder ! ! ! Not Manslaughter , but Murder 1 ! Now , pregnant and in need of funds , Kay goes to New York . But Broadway jobs are n't to be found , so she 's forced to take any job -- even Burlesque . Unable to adequately care for her young daughter , she gives it to another woman to raise . However , eventually she does find a job in a real Broadway play and everything looks rosy . But , the jealous diva starring in the play hates her for some inexplicable reason and forces her to be thrown off the play . Despondent , she makes her way to England and becomes a real star . Years later , she returns to New York to get her kid -- but the child is older and thinks the woman caring for her is her real mother . At the same time , her husband 's lawyer now thinks that if he gets $ 10,000 he can get the man out of prison . As another reviewer wrote , is this to bribe people ? ! How can $ 10,000 get him out otherwise -- maybe it will buy a helicopter so they can fly into the prison yard and scoop him up ! ! Wow -- this is enough for 2 or 3 films ! And , all this occurs by the 45 minute mark ! ! ! Believe it or not , there 's quite a bit more to it . If you really care , see it yourself to find out how it all unfolds . This is sort of like 'kitchen sink writing ' -- throwing in practically everything and hoping , somehow , it will all work . Unfortunately , the film turns out to be hopelessly unbelievable and mushy despite Ms. Francis ' best efforts . It 's the sort of film no one could really have saved thanks to a 2nd-rate plot . It 's almost as if someone just took a few dozen plot elements , threw them into a box and then began randomly picking them in order to make a movie ! ! Overall , unless you are a die-hard Kay Francis fan or love anything Hollywood made in the 1930s , this one is one you can easily skip . Not terrible but certainly not good . By the way , the child who plays Francis ' daughter upon her return to New York ( Sybil Jason ) really was terrible . I think she was supposed to be ... I think .
SPOILERS AHEAD This is one of the worst movies ever made - it 's that simple . There is not one redeeming quality about this movie . The first 10 minutes are quite tricky - they actually lead you to believe that this film will be shocking and will have you on the edge of your seat . Instead , you will spend 83 minutes punching yourself while watching stolen and poorly made scenes run without any organization . The lake was ridiculous , looked like an aquarium , and had the same plant in different parts of the lake bed . Characters show their advanced teleportation powers , for example Alex Thomas who falls into the lake ( drunk ) , and then ends up on his boat in an impossible position . Angie Harmon put up a pitiful performance as Kate , made worse by the space-time continuum rupturing dialog that appears to have been written at the last minute by a fifth grader . An example of this would be when she said , `` Flashlight ! '' in such a stupid manner that it shows the threshold of how much a human body can cringe before it snaps in half . Finally , the editing of this movie was by far the most bizarre and horrific that I have ever seen . It was like the cameramen were a bunch of chimps who had been given camcorders by scientists . An example of this would be when we suddenly get a closeup of the headlight on Alex 's car . I would bet that there was little to no time spent editing this movie . The ending was absolutely pathetic . The writers were obviously trying to create some sort of mysterious plot line that made the viewer say , `` oh yeah ! '' Instead , we 're left to view some dumb painting of a spider that somehow fits into the story line . Unfortunately , there is not one perspective in the millions out there that could save this movie from being a festering piece of crap . I give this a .5 out of 10 , the .5 being from the fact that this movie was recorded on film instead of becoming a picture book .
As Steven Segal movies go this one is bottom of the barrel . His best was just fodder for bored teenagers . This one tips the scales , then falls off . The characters are all cardboard . The story is double lame . I ca n't spoil it by telling you the ending . You already know how all Steven Segal movies end if you have seen one . Here goes . He is a super-dooper government agent who know too much to turn loose so they decide , instead of killing him , to dope his brain until he do n't remember squat . He escapes , of course , gets arrested and is located by his old general who needs his one man in a million experience to get back a stealth plane that has been handed over to a terrorist gang in Afghanastan by a rogue Air Force pilot who , surprise , surprise , Segal trained . All the heroes , except Segal 's character and his dusky girlfriend , die heroically and Steve-Baby save the whole world in one swell foop , or fell swoop . Whatever . Made with some surplus Air Force and Navy flying film . And a lot of boom-booms . Get some Popeye cartoons instead .
I really wanted to like this movie . It has a nice prison setting , conspiracy theories , bloodthirsty zombies , a perfectly hideous 80s-touch and it is a directorial effort by actor John Saxon , who also plays a bad ( you guessed it ) a bad guy . It reminds me of some ( beloved ) Italian horror flicks . But the direction is very wooden and there is no nightmarish/frightening moment in there . It just goes on and on and on , and then it ( logically ) has to end . More suspense and more daring visuals and its destiny as a cult classic would have been sealed .
This is the kind of movie i fear the most . Arrogant and Irresponsible , it presents a sketch of the colombian conflict so cliched and dumb it represents an insult to all Colombian people . The performances are godawul , from Grisales ( her naked scene is absolutely pitiful ) , to Bejarano , to Fanny Mickey ( who looks right out of a Tim Burton nightmare ) , to Díaz , who makes a notable effort to bring life to a character so one-dimensional , so cliched and so badly written all he´s left to work with is a mustache . Not to mention the gratuitous ending , a gore fest so cheesy that it would make Ed Wood cringe . It fails in all ways , cinematography , art direction , costumes , makeup , editing , and most of all directing , Jorge Alí Triana has always been a lousy filmmaker but at least his previous movies had some dignity . I ca n't say anything good about this waste of money , except that i hope Colombian filmmakers learn a lesson about honesty , integrity and responsability from this mean-intended fiasco .
I confess -- Emma , in my opinion , is the single greatest novel ever written . It is as close to perfection as any mortal creation can be . Jane Austen reaches the pinnacle of her art here . Unfortunately , this is at best a palimpsest . Comparison to the Gwyneth Paltrow version is inevitable -- that version is far more faithful to the witty spirit of the book and far more enjoyable to watch . There are some good elements here -- Kate Berkinsale ( having previously played Flora Poste in Cold Comfort Farm , clearly Emma 's smarter spiritual twin ) is a wonderful Emma . Raymond Coulthard makes an appropriately decorative Frank Churchill . The production is handsome , but the interiors are far too dark . However , there are several major problems . The first is Mark Strong -- first of all , he does n't look right for Mr. Knightley . This is perhaps because he plays the role like a censorious Victorian parson . It 's badly out of tune . The second problem is one of length . Simply put , the film is much too short -- to get the right kind of feel , it would need to be twice as long . Finally , and most significantly , there is the quality of the adaptation . Austen is an adapter 's dream -- all the dialogue is there already . It only needs to be pruned down and arranged properly . Andrew Davies seems to think otherwise . First , this is a rather gloomy film , and the last thing Emma should be is gloomy . More significantly , Davies has seen fit to rewrite the ending as some sort of bucolic feast . What planet , or minor work of Thomas Hardy , is this come from ? It is utterly out of the style and spirit of the novel . And I believe that it is hugely presumptuous to try to make improvements upon -- perfection . Watch the Paltrow version , or watch Kate in Cold Comfort Farm .
When the young Kevin gets the boat of his dead uncle as a gift , he invites five friends of him to a trip to Catalina Island for the weekend . While in the journey , they drink booze , have sex and play games , with each one of them telling his or her greatest fear . Later Kevin drowns in the open sea , the engine stops , and they are haunted and murdered by their greatest innermost fear . Yesterday , my wife , son , daughter and three other friends joined to watch `` Haunted Boat '' on DVD . With less than 30 minutes running time , the group gave up watching this messy and boring amateurish piece of crap , and we decided to see another film . Later , I decided to watch the rest of this flick to see how bad it could be and it would have been better off going to bed to sleep . The confused story has an awful cinematography and camera work , with a cast that is probably studying to be actors and actresses and in the end this film seems to be a bad project of cinema school . The terrible and pretentious screenplay shows a ridiculous twist in the end , actually a complete mess that made me not understand what the story is all about . Was the girl insane and traveled alone in the boat , imagining the whole situation with imaginary friends ? If that is true , are their friend again in the very end fruit of her madness ? My vote is one . Title ( Brazil ) : `` Viagem Para a Morte '' ( `` Trip to the Death '' )
Winter Kills is a terrible , incoherent and very disappointing conspiracy comedy-thriller from little-known director William Richert . While watching the film , I honestly felt as if I was the emperor in the classic fable The Emperor 's New Clothes . The film made me feel like a fool because I could n't make head nor tail of the serpentine plot and the nonsensical characters . But I felt kind of embarrassed to admit to myself that the film was tying my brain up in knots . So I stuck with it to the end , hoping that the whole tangled mess would untangle itself . Then I realised ... . the film is SUPPOSED to be serpentine , nonsensical and illogical , because that 's the whole point . This is a satirical look at conspiracy theories and theorists , with the knotting-up of the plot used as a metaphor for the knotting-up of truths , half-truths and lies that define any conspiracy . Even when I got that the joke was on me , I still felt Winter Kills to be a pretty awful movie . Young Nick Kegan ( Jeff Bridges ) is the younger brother of a former United States President who was assassinated in Philadelphia . Nick is present when a dying man claims that he shot the President and gives detailed information about where he hid the gun . Nick follows the clues , but every step of the way the people helping him seem to die in mysterious circumstances . Also , his father Pa Kegan ( John Huston ) , a vulgar and disgustingly wealthy businessman , keeps interfering with Nick 's investigation . The deeper he delves into the assassination , the more Nick realises that he is descending into a web of complex lies and red herrings , where nothing is as it seems and no-one can be trusted . The film is an utter nightmare to follow , and in many ways is not worth trying to follow for the afore-mentioned reason that it deliberately tangles itself up . The cast is packed with extraordinary talent but most of them are wasted . Toshiro Mifune has one of the briefest and most pointless cameo roles in cinematic history ; Elizabeth Taylor appears uncredited and has not a single line of dialogue ; Richard Boone is given what seems to be an interesting role but his character goes nowhere . John Huston has the best role as the powerful patriarch and provides us with the film 's few enjoyable moments with his acerbic delivery . Anthony Perkins also gets a creepy role and handles it well , though his screen time is far too short to do complete justice to the character . Some nudity and sex scenes are tossed in for no real reason and , while they 're quite graphic and might appeal to voyeurs , they really belong in another film . The film 's semi-comic climax is farcical and disappointing , yet paradoxically memorable in its weird little way . There 's obviously a cult audience out there somewhere for Winter Kills ... . but I wo n't be counting myself among its number .
My friends and I rented this from Blockbuster because we saw Nana Visitor 's name on the box . This movie is a travesty I hope she negates from her CV . The `` plot '' was lose and flaccid , the acting was mostly dry and unbearable in some parts . The movie made no sense whatsoever . The rough plot of an alien parasite species that infects humans has been done many times by films with much better scripts than this , for example , invasion of the body-snatchers and The faculty . If you ever have the misfortune to come across this movie , I suggest you burn it . How it classes itself as a horror movie when there was no use of fear , suspense , gore , terror or any of the usual horror film techniques I do n't know , however if you still find yourself wanting to watch this film I suggest you have a lot of sugar before hand , so you can find parts of it funny .
I am generally more willing to be open minded about rom coms than many , but this was simply not a very good attempt . Its got nothing to do with comparisons with the British original -- have not seen , and doubt I will . It has a whole lot to do with a meandering plot , lack of chemistry between the leads and a godawful performance/character from its supposed male lead ( Jimmy Fallon ) . Fallon walks onto the screen wearing the clothes and hairdo of a 15 year old and acting a decade younger than that . He 's supposed to be a teacher you see , and of course its well known that school districts the world over love to hire individuals less mature than the children they purport to teach . The character is so extremely disturbed and irrational that I have my doubts whether any actor could have made him likable , but old reliables like John Cusack or Adam Sandler might have been able to give it a shot . Not Fallon , who is neither funny , nor an actor , but appears to think he is both . Not once in the entire course of the movie do you either believe Fallon in his role , or believe that there is any way these two people should , or would be together . Near the end of the movie there is a scene where Barrymore ( who was cute as usual but could not carry this one alone -- its hard to have a one person romance ) tells Fallon that its over , too much has happened , and she 's moving on . And rather than feeling bad about the scene , or sorry for Fallon , you are actively cheering her on -- finally she does what she should have done months ago . But of course the plot mechanics wo n't allow that to be the end of it ( an end which actually might have made a statement out of this mess ) , and instead we get to see the rational career girl throwing it all away to chase after this childish idiot and encourage his delusions . Its of course meant to be gooey and satisfying , but it actually made me more disgusted than anything else .
One has to wonder if at any point in the production of this film a script existed that made any sense . Was the rough cut 3 hours long and was it trimmed into the incoherent mess that survives ? Why would anyone finance this mess ? I will say that Tom Wlaschiha is a good looking young man and he does what he can with the dialogue and dramatic ( ? ) situations he is given . But characters come and go for no apparent reason , continuity is non-existent , and the acting , cinematography , and direction are ( to put it politely ) amateurish . Not One Sleeps is an unfortunate choice of title as it will probably prove untrue should anyone actually attempt to actually watch this film .
I grew up ( b . 1965 ) watching and loving the Thunderbirds . All my mates at school watched . We played `` Thunderbirds '' before school , during lunch and after school . We all wanted to be Virgil or Scott . No one wanted to be Alan . Counting down from 5 became an art form . I took my children to see the movie hoping they would get a glimpse of what I loved as a child . How bitterly disappointing . The only high point was the snappy theme tune . Not that it could compare with the original score of the Thunderbirds . Thankfully early Saturday mornings one television channel still plays reruns of the series Gerry Anderson and his wife created . Jonatha Frakes should hand in his directors chair , his version was completely hopeless . A waste of film . Utter rubbish . A CGI remake may be acceptable but replacing marionettes with Homo sapiens subsp . sapiens was a huge error of judgment .
This type of plot really does have a lot of potential , but it was butchered here . Honestly , I sensed the cheese element in the beginning , but I thought it would get better after the grotesque birthing . Whoa , I was wrong ! So mad scientist makes a monster , wants to brag to his old cronies before he kills them , but of course they escape . After that , it 's really bad . I should 've counted the times the rubber shark mask peeked out from behind some foliage , but I most likely would have lost count . Pan down to the blood-dripping-from-severed-leg to show us how the shark-man finds the folks . I hate being spoon-fed every aspect of a horror film . Oh , and after being nearly killed by a mutated shark-man and trudging around a jungle-esqe island , there 's nothing more cheerful than a middle-aged man reciting Shakespeare ... This is one where you 'll find yourself rooting for the monster ... if you can bear to watch this poor excuse for a flick .
I feel the movie did not portray Smith historically . The goal of this movie was to tell Smith 's life in a way that would be `` comfortable '' to the LDS Church leaders , historical accuracy seems to have been of little concern . The movie was designed to be a `` faith promoting '' experience , not a balanced view of Smith `` as a man . '' I have taken it upon myself to study Smith 's life and have read both LDS works and none LDS works . The movie , like most LDS projects , was beautifully filmed and well acted . However , this was not a realistic portrayal of either the beginnings of Mormonism or Smith 's relatively short life . A significant period of time was given to reenacting an accident that Smith had when he was seven . While this event was no doubt important in forming his mental outlook , it appears that the main reason for including it in the film is to help establish a sympathetic view of Joseph Smith . Another point is in portraying Smith 's teen years the film is silent regarding the Smith family 's involvement in magical practices during the 1820 's . Another problem is while the movie shows Joseph Smith good-naturedly entering into wrestling contests , it fails to show how he sometimes lost his temper and became violent . I could go on and on . This movie was not historical in any way and should be considered a fictional movie about a man . I would not recommend seeing this movie for any other purpose other then entertainment .
A family of terrible people must remain in a house for a week or else they will lose their inheritance which will go to the servants who will only get their inheritance if they agree to stay on and keep the house in order . People die ( and so will you if you try to sit through this ) If you 've ever had any desire to see bad actors- many with ill fitting dentures-act or attempt to act in a bad horror movie this is your chance . This is just awful . Its so bad I thought Al Adamson , one of the worst directors ever , directed it , but I was wrong . Its so bad I do n't want to say anything more about it , not because it is n't polite but because once I start I may not be able to stop . avoid
As other viewers have mentioned , this film was an interesting experiment in photography . The colors are comic book bold . I think the director got carried away with his `` artistic vision '' over the look of the film instead o badly needed attention to content . Despite its stellar cast , the performances are lackluster and the story nearly incoherent . Madonna was likely cast purely as a stunt to get pre-release press . A good thing as her appearance here lent some credence to her album `` I 'm Breathless ( Music inspired by the film Dick Tracy ) '' which was a stratospheric hit ( due in large part to the inclusion of dance-hit `` Vogue '' - which is not in , nor has the slightest relation to this film ) . I 'd guess the major portion of money from this film came from tie-ins to Madonna 's `` I 'm Breathless '' album . If you watch it at home , by end-titles , you 'll think `` there 's two hours out of my life I 'd like to have back . '' Save yourself the wasted time - do not bother with this .
If you have read the book - do not set your hopes high , if you have not - go read it , and never watch the film . It is strange to learn that Toby Young was actually involved a lot in the writing of the script ( as he claims himself in the post script of the book ) . Because the film is very different from the book . What the film seems to be aiming at - taking a rather thought provoking and entertaining piece that combines philosophical ideas with plain funny sarcasm and simplifying it so that everyone would understand it - it achieves with perfection . The film is full of bad and cheap jokes suitable for a sitcoms , and has lost any meaningful message that it could have had . You are better off not seeing it .
I do n't hand out `` ones '' often , but if there was ever a film that deserved this sort of attention , it 's `` Gas ! '' This is self-indulgent crap that reaches for some of the ambiance of M*A*S*H and falls completely flat on its face in the attempt . I see what Corman was going for - Malcolm Marmorstein and Elliott Gould tried to reproduce Gould 's deathless role in the original movie version of M*A*S*H with a similar plot ( in the movie `` Whiffs '' - look it up here in IMDb , http : //www.imdb.com/title/tt0073891/ for more information ) . Marmorstein and Gould got closer to the brass ring with `` Whiffs '' than Corman did with `` Gas ! '' but did n't quite get there . Neither one of those films even got close to the success of M*A*S*H. What 's wrong with `` Gas ! '' ? What is n't ? No one comes close to really acting at a level above junior high school theatrics . The production values stink . Someone else here mentioned the magically regenerating headlights on a getaway car , and there 's more of that lack of attention to detail . Nothing works the way it 's supposed to in this film , and nobody cares . `` Gas ! '' actually put me to sleep . It 's not a sure cure for insomnia , but really close . On the Cinematic Sleep Induction scale , `` Gas ! '' falls somewhere between `` Last Year at Marienbad '' and George Clooney 's remake of `` Solaris '' ( which itself was remarkable for being more boring than the Mosfilm original , despite that studio 's seeming unfamiliarity with the idea of keeping the audience 's attention by judicious editing ) . Judicious editing would have decimated `` Gas ! '' to about twenty minutes . The result would be pointless , but no more so than the original film . Certain films are so bad that they have a compelling quality that makes them worth watching anyway . This is n't one of them . Do n't waste your time . It 's not even amusingly bad .
You know you 're in trouble when John Cassavetes is operating at half-speed instead of full-throttle in a movie , and `` The Incubus '' is a dreadful , worst-case scenario of a great actor going through the motions to pay the bills . Actually , observing the hammy script and John Hough 's 'baroque ' art direction , one can hardly blame him . The movie has something to do with a series of rape-murders going on in a small town , with a lot of supernatural hokum mixed in . Somehow , the direction manages to suck tension and interest out of every scene , and Cassavetes seems visibly P.O . 'ed at times . The Incubus itself , which does n't show up until the last scene , is a well-done creation , but it 's not worth waiting for . 1/10
... and yet , we were told , there was another hour and 20 minutes left to go . Why , oh , why was n't there an editor to tell the writer/director to snip , snip , snip ? Apparently that writer/director has previously done shorts ; as a short , this would have been okay . But the lack of dialogue starts to grate after twenty minutes . The lack of much music glares . The background noises ( talking , traffic , and especially a ubiquitous helicopter ) get old really fast . But the worst failure is in story . There is precious little beyond a short . After an hour we saw variations of the same scene over and over again . I nearly screamed at the screen , `` We get it , we get it ! ! ! ! ! '' It 's amazing that after that left the theatre , we could drive home , watch the Daily Show and parts of the Colbert Report , get ready for bed , and know that the audience was STILL trapped in the theatre . It 's not enough to indulge your vision . You have to give the audience enough to share your vision .
Unfortunately for me , the first Busby Berkeley movie I ever watched was `` 42nd Street . '' I then expected all of his stuff to be that good . I found out that was n't necessarily the case , even here , with my all-time favorite classic-era actor James Cagney . Oh , the musical numbers at the end are as spectacular as always , but the story is like many of the others and quite tiresome . They seem to always involve screaming , unhappy show producers . In this film , it 's Cagney who winds up shouting things out so often that he gives me a headache after awhile and his character wears thin ... .fast ! Even the songs in here are anywhere near `` 42nd Street '' class , songs you could hum for years and years - decades , I should say . The songs in this movie are not memorable . No , this is one of the few early Cagney films - and Berkeley films - I totally dislike and was very disappointed with while watching .
Garson Kanin wrote and directed this look at `` modern day '' Las Vegas and the gap between generations , his first directorial effort since the 1940s ! David Janssen is somewhat miscast as a big-shot casino owner who reunites with his son ( Robert Drivas , who looks disconcertingly like an older Jason Bateman ) . Janssen approaches every scene the same way : defensively , with a chip on his shoulder . Playing this role cool and laid-back is asking too much from Janssen , who barks at everyone like a grouchy put-upon husband ( he even chews out Don Rickles and makes him cry ! ) . His son , a ne'er-do-well in search of his own identity , makes hip comments about how young people look down on Vegas ( give them another ten years ) , and his disapproval of Dad 's lifestyle causes friction . Brenda Vaccaro is cute as a self-conscious secretary and Edy Willaims has a fun bit as a showgirl at an audition . Unfortunately , `` Where It 's At '' does n't have much else going for it other than the now-dated ruminations on ethics between adults and their kids , some quick T & A shots and amusingly jaded satirical bits on the high-stakes world of gambling -- most of which has been covered by now , ad nauseum . ** from ****
It 's hard to say what was the worst thing about this show : the bad acting , poor acoustics of different portions , bad CGI , improper sets for the period , the poor script . It would have been nice if the script followed the original tale a bit closer -- there 's enough tension and good material in Beowulf to provide a great deal of good material , and a better story line , than the scriptwriters could come up with . And why introduce a strange new weapon like a crossbow that fires explosive bolts ? I see that this movie was made in `` only '' 21 days . It shows in the lack of quality . I 'm beginning to think this is general ( poor ) attitude taken by Sci-Fi channel ( and others ) when it comes to making movies out of classic tales in the past few years . What a waste !
Watching CBS 's `` Surrender , Dorothy '' , I kept wondering why Diane Keaton would want to be in it ( not because it 's a television movie -- with the dearth of enticing roles for slightly older actresses , it is n't any wonder why Academy Award winning performers such as Keaton turn to TV -- but because it offers no opportunities for Keaton to shine ) . A single mother , grieving the sudden death of her twenty-something daughter , imposes upon -- and gradually becomes friends with -- the group of young people her daughter was close to at the time of her accident . Adapted from the novel , this teleplay gives us a group of self-absorbed characters one would cross the street to avoid . Aside from being coarse and dim , these phony people are incredibly unconvincing , as is the tidy scenario and the bungalow near the beach where the kids reside ( one young man , who wears muscle shirts to tell us he 's gay , hears Diane Keaton say , `` Surrender , Dorothy '' and actually asks , `` That 's from `` The Wizard of Oz '' , right ? `` ... no , genius , it 's from `` Citizen Kane '' ! ) . Keaton may have wanted to do this material based on the subject matter of confronting death . She tries turning this distinctly unlikable woman into a shadow of her own personage ( lots of kooky outfits ) , but it does n't sit well with the viewer since Keaton has always been warmly likable and flexible in a flaky way . Here , she 's a crazed harpy who does n't learn many lessons on her journey of self-discovery ( the movie quickly forgets it 's about a dead young woman and becomes an odyssey for the nervous wreck of a mom , who appears to be an overage hippie who has never lost anyone close to her ) . This is the kind of film actors promote on talk shows with the caveat , `` It should help a lot of grieving mothers out there '' . I ca n't imagine it helping anyone since it is intrinsically a downer , muddled and baffling . It 's deranged .
If you 've ever seen this movie , you 'd know that it ! If you have n't , and want to see a classic BAD movie , I suggest you see this movie , because it ranks right down with the worst . So , if you 're REALLY bored , go rent it . If you want to know what it 's like , here 's my little summary : Adam Sandler is hired to work on a giant cruise ship with some Ms Universe models and five other people . Adam does n't like how one passenger is getting all the babes , and he tries to take over with the cheezy jokes . BUT WAIT ! It only gets worse ! You 'll have to rent the movie yourself to see how bad it truly is .
Mary Pickford becomes the chieftain of a Scottish clan after the death of her father , and then has a romance . As fellow commenter Snow Leopard said , the film is rather episodic to begin . Some of it is amusing , such as Pickford whipping her clansmen to church , while some of it is just there . All in all , the story is weak , especially the recycled , contrived romance plot-line and its climax . The transfer is so dark it 's difficult to appreciate the scenery , but even accounting for that , this does n't appear to be director Maurice Tourneur 's best work . Pickford and Tourneur collaborated once more in the somewhat more accessible 'The Poor Little Rich Girl , ' typecasting Pickford as a child character .
An interesting idea involving an alternative dimension inside a hospital . It recalled - Stephen Kings `` Langoliers '' , `` Kingdom Hospital '' and old twilight zone episodes . Atmospherically strong , the set up was great . There were also some very clever 'time loop ' moments which always have that head-melt appeal . The story had plenty of vague references which led me to believe that all the ensuing weirdness of - time slips / ghosts / a weird bat winged demon and a rather silly heavy metal attired ghoul-thing would be explained . And THAT was were Dark Floors severely let me down . Based on my viewing the movie gives NO EXPLANATION as to what is behind the events . Whilst , some ambiguity is always expected/welcome in these kind of films . Dark floors took it to new heights of vagueness . I do n't expect things wrapped up in a pretty ribbon , but neither should I be left feeling `` Huh ? .. is that it ? ... Did I dose off ? Maybe , I hit chapter skip by mistake ? '' Dark Floors left me with a deeply unsatisfying suspicion that `` It was all a dream '' which is a shame because up until the last reel I was very much on board and enjoying the movie .
This has to be one of the worst films I have ever seen . The DVD was given to me free with an order I placed online for non DVD related items . No wonder they were given away , surely no one could part with money for this drivel . How some reviewers can say they found it hilarious beggars belief , the person who includes it in the worst five films ever has got it spot on . How on earth a talented actor like Philip Seymour Hoffman could get involved in this rubbish is unbelievable . Mostly toilet humour and badly done at that . Anyone wanting to be entertained should avoid this at all costs .
I found this on the shelf while housesitting and bored . How can people possibly give this a 10 ? It 's not just that it 's supposed to be a feel-good redemption film ( I think ) , because it does n't work on that level either . Weak plot , bad dialogue , terrible acting ; there 's just nothing there . Harvey Keitel is decent , but has nothing to work with , and Bridget Fonda and especially Johnathon Schaech are just terrible . The plot progression ( especially the relationship between Byron and Ashley ) makes no sense . It seems like the writers wanted the plot to go a certain way and made it , without actually writing in the necessary bits to make it flow . It 's only an hour and a half , but that 's 90 minutes of your life you 'll never get back .
I have always admired Susan Sarandon for her integrity and honesty in her private life as well as her talents as an actor . I therefor found it strange that she would appear in a film that so distorted that facts . Her character 's rescue from the South Pole was done by a Canadian charter company from Edmonton , Alberta flying a Canadian designed and built Twin Otter aircraft . The trip had been turned down by the US Airforce , Navy and Coast Guard as beyond their capabilities . The same company staged a similar rescue a few years later to bring out a man from the South Pole base . I feel that the film fairly represented a very gripping subject and documented a very courageous woman facing a frightening task . I fail to see why the producers would find it necessary ignore the bravery of the rescue pilots and show the rescue plane as a USAF Hercules .
What 's in here ? ! Let me tell you . It 's the presence of ( Alec Baldwin ) . He 's not a great actor but maybe a nice star with some good movies which this is not one of them . He did nothing here more than anything he did before or after . So not to mention ( literally ! ) the matter of ( Steve McQueen ) being at the same role in the original because I do n't want to make that comparison in the first place . I 'm not a big fan or even a fan of ( Kim Basinger ) , she got a lot of bad movies on her and even at her best she looks average ! And it gets on my nerve indeed whenever they talk about her seductive rare beauty ! ! ? ? Well , if being a blond would make anyone captivating then I 'll dye my hair in yellow as soon as possible ! And what is it with all the craziness over miss Basinger 's Legs ? ? ! ! It 's surely insanity or bad tasting ? As I do n't see them both as not sexy only , but UGLY too ! And if you hate that so shoot me down but you know what ? ! I 've just watched this movie so I 'm dead already ! . Yet , what would make you really suffer in unbearable way is that nothing of the credits goes to the one she deserves the most And of course I mean ( Jennifer Tilly ) ..Now we 're talking about a true genuine seductive chick with such unforgettable body and one unique sense of allurement like a nasty brunette ( Marilyn Monroe ) however much more healthier ! ! ( I ca n't help it , she was the only new and watchable thing in here ! ) . ( Michael Madsen ) as the bad guy was much appealing as well as effective more than the good guys , ( James Woods ) is here to summarize the early events beside the pool ( so the trailer would be by his voice later ! ) and he knew before all that this is a whole Hollywood 's stuff so `` Do your thing , take your cash , and good luck as an actor in other movies ! `` , the editing gave the movie a serious personality along with violent atmosphere done by suitable shining cinematography , so the main goods of it ( The action , The thrill , .. ) are here and fairly well-made , though any echo for deep meanings about ( the kinds of betrayal ) as the main dramatic motif of the whole thing is not that strong so do n't wait for it . OK , it 's all in all another remake without anything special ( Except Jennifer Tilly 's spicy moments ! ) so I think I tried to be objective as much as I could therefore I should n't end my review saying that ( Basinger ) or anyone here did better than this movie.. It would be an insult because frankly.. Anything is better than this movie !
`` True '' story of three girls who go into the wilds of Connecticut and end up hunted by a maniac in the woods . This is the sort of film that would have played in the drive ins across America thirty years ago to mixed acclaim . Not particularly much of anything the film works with its low budget to mixed results . The film is watchable but is n't at all scary ( blame how some of the attack scenes for that ) . Its the sort of film that you 'll probably forget about once you 're done with it . Odds are that you 're never going to think to see this unless its handed to you by someone and told , `` here watch this '' , which is what happened to me . If you 're handed a copy give it back , the film is n't worth the effort to see it even if it is watchable .
I had some expectation for the movie , since it had a nice star cast and it is the return of the duo of Akshay and Saif . Well , I was hesitant to watch the movie because this was done by the same man who wrote the story for Dhoom franchise because I hated Dhoom 2 ; but if Dhoom 2 is compared to Tashan , I would say Dhoom 2 is very realistic . When I saw the credits at the beginning , I felt nice because it was put up in a nice way . Well , the very first scene itself pis*ed me off . Then , the major drawback of the movie is the action sequences . Me and my friends were laughing our guts off watching this crappy fights . It was like Akshay against some 30 thugs and all and the thugs even got machine guns ! Phew ... you got to see this to understand how bad the action sequences are . The other thing about the movie is the far too predictable story . It reminded me of some of the early 80 's movies . Well , the only thing the movie is worth is of sexy Kareena , who looked really hot in this one.And for that , I give a rating of 2 out of 10 . Guys , please..please ... do n't see this one thinking that it is a real gangster movie . Well , you can watch this to have some laughs at the terrible fight scenes . Thats all .
This movie seemed to have it all going for it with good camera , sound , film , sets , music , costumes ... but drum-roll , Gary Stretch spoke ! I do n't know if it was his poor acting or simply a bad script , but would say it was both . Considering the casting of him in this role , I found it difficult to root for him even to the very end . I wished he 'd have died in battle or one of the sword/knife scuffles . Then , the tinder for the plot to kill the king was because the king did n't have dinner and sex with his Queen ? Pretty lame . And to go to the extreme to kill her own son ? And to then push up her lover as succeeding King ? I see a thread or two here and there of historical bytes , but the manner in which this was all presented was farcical . I do n't recognize Gary Stretch from anything else , but he was dreadful . I read another user 's comments about audio being dubbed , but do n't think his was dubbed ... after all , he speaks English , right ? It really was awful . The lines were read right off the coroner 's table ... flat-line . It could be he just does n't have the voice to carry tone fluctuations . Aside from this , I did watch it to the end , so the movie had at least an `` interest . '' It could have been more if the script/lines and casting had been given more work . The scenery and filming crew along with very good quality film is what really made this movie above all else . The cast and story were all secondary . I give the film crew a 10 .
This movie could had been an interesting character study and could had given some insight on its subject but real problem with this movie is that it does n't have any of this in it . It does n't give any insight- , or solutions to the problem . It 's just the portrayal of 'old ' male sex addict and the problems this is creating for his every day normal life and family . Why would you want to watch this ? It 's all so totally pointless and meaningless . It also really does n't help that the main character is some wrinkly 50+ year old male . You 'll have a hard time identifying yourself- and sympathize for him . He just seems like a dirty old playboy , who is an a constant hunt for woman and sex . He has all kinds of sexual intercourse 's about 3 times a day with different woman and not just only with prostitutes . It also does n't have a bad visual style , though it all feels a bit forced . But nevertheless it 's all better looking than most other direct-to-video productions . Who knows , if the film-makers had been given better material to work with , the movie would had deserved a better faith . The story really gets ridicules at times . There are really some pointless plot-lines that are often more laughable than they were obviously supposed to be . I 'm talking about for instance the whole Ordell plot-line . Things get worse once they movie starts heading toward the ending . Also the whole way the story is being told , cutting back and forth between the events that happened and the main character 's sessions with his psychiatrist feels a bit cheap and simple . But as far as bad movies are concerned , this just is n't one of them . It 's not really any better or worse than any other random straight-to-video flick , with similar concepts . Still seems weird and quite amazing that they managed to cast Nastassja Kinski and Ed Begley Jr. in such a simple small insignificant production as this one is . Guess they were really desperate for work and money . 4/10
A group of us watched this film are were really disgusted . We were willing to forgive the fact that our favorite character Jo was n't on ( it 's not like the writers/producers could do anything about that ) . The writing was poor , the script was sub-par . What REALLY annoyed us : 1 . When the two guys realized they were both dating Natalie , they did n't just leave they put up with that stupid ( and ultimately degrading ) contest - but only because they were macho competing guys , not because they really wanted Natalie . 2 . Despite being unable to choose between the two guys before the reunion , Natalie suddenly decides that she really loves one of the guys and is now ready to marry him ? ( and there was no foreshadowing that he was really a better guy , it 's as if the writers flipped a coin and then just had her spit it out at some convenient point in the film ) . 3 . Blair makes a point of talking about how she does not want children and then all of a sudden when her husband says he wants to have children , she blissfully agrees with him .
Yes . I 'll admit it . I believed all the hype surrounding this piece of work , about the trials and tribulations of 6 people , living in Mexico City concerning their sexual lives . And so , I was really expecting to finally see a Mexican movie ( in ages ) that was both popular and interesting to watch . Unfortunately the film was utterly disappointing . The story presents us with two couples , both with very obvious marital problems . When a third party comes into the life of each couple , their problems reach a pivotal point . Or absolute absurd . The plot then turns into a battle of the sexes . The stance taken by each group ( yes , they literally group , girls with girls and boys with boys ) is blatantly stupid and childish ( I guess the humor was supposed to be there ) . And it all goes from bad to worse . The performances range from good ( Miss Zavaleta ) to mediocre ( Mr Bichir ) , with Serrano doing an acceptable job on his opera prima . However , the flat circumstances that make up the plot , the one-dimensional characters , the very poor ( if not stupid ) perception of what sex represents in a mature relationship etc , make the movie fail . Miserably . SPyL has had an ( impressive ) good reception at the box-office . Believe the hype at your own risk .
If it was n't for the performances of Barry Diamond and Art Evans as the clueless stoners , I would have no reason to recommend this to anyone . The plot centers around a 10 year high school reunion , which takes place in a supposed abandon high school ( looks more like a prop from a 1950s low budget horror flick ) , and the deranged student the class pulled a very traumatizing prank on . This student desires to kill off the entire class for revenge . John Hughes falls in love with his characters too much , as only one student is killed as well as the lunch lady ( Goonies ' Anne Ramsey ) . We 're led to believe that the horny coupled gets killed , but never see a blasted thing ! This is a horrible movie that continued National Lampoon 's downward spiral throughout the 80s and 90s .
This film was terrible . OK , my favourite film is 'The Wicker Man ' ( 1973 ) , so I was always bound to be a little biased . The plot rambles along , throwing out enough of the key elements of the original to make the term 'remake ' highly dubious . ( He 's not a virgin , but IS allergic to bees . WOW ! ) So many things happen that make no sense and are unexplained , which I 'm afraid Mr LaBute does not a horror movie make . ( How are two people we clearly saw blown up in a car at the start alive and well at the end of the film ? ) Cage looks haggard and bewildered throughout , and his character is prone to calling out `` Rowan ! ? '' at the slightest noise . The 'nods ' to the original are irritating as they come off as tacky rather than as intelligent homage . For example , certain incidents mirror the original ( The girl falling out of a cupboard pretending to be dead when Woodward/Cage is searching the island ) and several lines of dialogue are plucked straight from Anthony Schaffers original screenplay and shoehorned in . I 'm sure others will provide a better and more detailed analysis than this , I really ca n't be bothered to write any more about this film . It lacks any kind of substance . Throw it on the scrap heap with all the other remakes that have sullied the good names of the films they were 'based ' on ( in this case very loosely ) .
Utterly pretentious nonsense . The material is dull , dull , dull , and most of the cast would n't even have made understudies in Allen 's earlier films . And to have to listen to the unfunny Will Ferrell do his Woody Allen imitation makes me loathe the second-rate ( though mysteriously popular ) Ferrell even more . It appears that the morose 70-year old Allen should have knocked off work when the clock rang in a new century . I truly tried to get involved in the film , but it was just impossible ; my snyapses could n't fire that slowly . So , rather than doze off and kill the afternoon sleeping in an upright position I got up , left my wife and daughter in the theater , and went out to the car where I had a really good book to re-read ( George Bailey 's great tome of 30 years ago , `` Germans . '' ) The day turned out pretty well after all , no thanks to Woody .
It was almost worth sitting through this entire god-awful `` film '' just to know that I can never experience anything as bad as this again . Acting - 0 , script - 0 , fight scenes - 0 , male lead - 0 ( cheddar bob from eight mile as a suave war hero who gets the girl ) , Nadia Bjorlin - 10 ( She is gorgeous and not a terrible actress ) . This is the criteria I used to average it out to a two . I lost count but I believe ever movie cliché , ever , is in this movie . When the driver that supposedly killed her father miraculously shows up at the end to race against her , from out of nowhere it cemented the previous statement . Plus he just shows up for no reason . He was never even mentioned before . I do n't know what else to say here . Just watch it when it comes out on TV in a couple years . At least that way some of it will be edited out for commercials .
... and you can look at that statement in different ways , by the way . First of all , it 's a mess because of all the gruesome and extremely violent scenes . Your wildest imagination does n't even come close to some of the explicitly shown scenes here . Entire parts of this movie are just plain sick , disgusting , offensive , brutal and they bring you close to puking your guts out . Now , I love horror movies and I am very 'pro-violence ' , but I do think that it has to lead somewhere ! ! Is that too much to ask ? Cradle of Fear is just a series of utterly sick and twisted thoughts . The `` movie '' contains out of four separate chapters connected by a wraparound story . This results in endless showing of torture , murder and sickness only to find out that the victims have something in common . Not very informative , if you ask me . And yet - it has to be said - the basic plot idea surely HAS potential . It 's about a cannibalistic hypnotist who made a deal with the devil himself to avenge himself and cause misery and death to everyone who was involved in his trial . Personally , I think that is an interesting topic , so they should have focused on that a little more instead of wanting to create the most disgusting movie ever . Secondly , the whole production of this movie was a mess . They did n't have much of a budget and they spent it all on fake blood and guts ... Tons of it ! ! The acting performances are a joke and some of the worst I 've ever seen . Any other special effects besides the make-up looks very amateurish ( Like that attempt to a realistic car crash , for example ) . There 's no tension or atmosphere to detect anywhere ... not even an attempt to build up one . Cradle of Fear is a failure and a missed opportunity to say the least . With the presence of death-metal icon Danni Filth ( from the band Cradle of filth..get the link ? ) this movie is obviously only meant for the eyes of twisted teenagers who try to be controversial . Troubled girls and boys who take pleasure in worrying their parents by watching crap like this . And then people keep complaining that the amount of suicides and juvenile delinquency is increasing ... Bah . I can imagine that this movie can cause a lot of damage when you 're easily influenced or dispose of an unstable mind . For every self-respecting horror fan , this movie is an insult .
While it contains facts that are not widely reported , it is not exactly the truth . They took a lot of liberties in rearranging events , excluding people , and using sets that do not meet the facts of their lives in the 30 's . There were more than just Bonnie , Clyde , and W.D . in the gang at various times , and those people had as much to do with the facts as those included . Buck and Blanche went to convince Clyde to go straight much earlier than the one shootout , and in fact got drawn back into crime . Some of the events that were portrayed in daylight actually took place at night . Bonnie 's wound was much more severe and never healed right . It was so bad she had to be carried around by someone until it healed up , and even then it stiffened up so she walked stiffly . Clyde also walked with a limp because while in prison he cut off a big toe . I know , I 'm being nit picky , and it was a TV movie , but even without these factual errors in this `` TRUE '' story , the movie moves too fast from event to event and comes across more as several separate snapshots of their lives , rather than being a cohesive flowing story . I 'd recommend reading a book or seeing a documentary if you want to get closer to the truth .
A less-than-subtle poke at the beliefs and teachings of the Catholic Church is given a darker shade of death near the end of the show . Throughout the show , dark humour plays a medium through which several commonly heard rhetoric questions are asked , especially `` If God is so good , why does he allow evil to exist in the world ? '' Diane Keaton is excellent in her role as an exaggerated version ( though some might disagree ) of they stereotyped religious teacher who spouts the `` company line '' and condemns half the world to burn in Hell . To celebrate her school 's 25th anniversary , she invites her first students to return and perform their Christmas pageant . However , when the quartet `` update '' their play to parody Sister Mary 's `` fallacious '' teachings , the nun is pushed over the edge , sending the story spiralling into a chain of unhappy events . The ending finally leaves the audience with a sick feeling in their hearts . Not recommended . Go watch the play instead .
I really wanted to like this movie - the location shots were mostly filmed in Pittsburgh and the trailer had some wonderful photography . But , even for a filmed cartoon , it was a really badly-made movie . The continuity and pacing were both simply awful . The best bits in the movie are under the ending credits , so it 's ( almost ) worth sticking it out to the end ( though , oddly , it does pick up a little over the last half hour or so ) . When the best performance in a movie is by Andy Dick , you know there 's got to be a problem ...
It must be assumed that those who praised this film ( `` the greatest filmed opera ever , '' did n't I read somewhere ? ) either do n't care for opera , do n't care for Wagner , or do n't care about anything except their desire to appear Cultured . Either as a representation of Wagner 's swan-song , or as a movie , this strikes me as an unmitigated disaster , with a leaden reading of the score matched to a tricksy , lugubrious realisation of the text . It 's questionable that people with ideas as to what an opera ( or , for that matter , a play , especially one by Shakespeare ) is `` about '' should be allowed anywhere near a theatre or film studio ; Syberberg , very fashionably , but without the smallest justification from Wagner 's text , decided that Parsifal is `` about '' bisexual integration , so that the title character , in the latter stages , transmutes into a kind of beatnik babe , though one who continues to sing high tenor -- few if any of the actors in the film are the singers , and we get a double dose of Armin Jordan , the conductor , who is seen as the face ( but not heard as the voice ) of Amfortas , and also appears monstrously in double exposure as a kind of Batonzilla or Conductor Who Ate Monsalvat during the playing of the Good Friday music -- in which , by the way , the transcendant loveliness of nature is represented by a scattering of shopworn and flaccid crocuses stuck in ill-laid turf , an expedient which baffles me . In the theatre we sometimes have to piece out such imperfections with our thoughts , but I ca n't think why Syberberg could n't splice in , for Parsifal and Gurnemanz , mountain pasture as lush as was provided for Julie Andrews in Sound of Music ... The sound is hard to endure , the high voices and the trumpets in particular possessing an aural glare that adds another sort of fatigue to our impatience with the uninspired conducting and paralytic unfolding of the ritual . Someone in another review mentioned the 1951 Bayreuth recording , and Knappertsbusch , though his tempi are often very slow , had what Jordan altogether lacks , a sense of pulse , a feeling for the ebb and flow of the music -- and , after half a century , the orchestral sound in that set , in modern pressings , is still superior to this film .
Based on the novel by Michael Chabon , The Mysteries of Pittsburgh is about the young son of a notorious gangster who spends his last teenage summer roaming around with two friends . The year is 1983 , and young Art Bechstein ( Jon Foster ) is at a crossroads . Completely opposed to his father 's lifestyle , Art plans to become a stockbroker . Visually contrived with painful attempts to create beautiful hip indie cinematography , the whole film feels like the director - whose previous effort Dodgeball was funny if outright commercial - is desperately seeking indie credibility by cobbling together aspects of other indie films but sprinkling it with stars like Mena Suvari , Sienna Miller and Nick Nolte . Like so many of the star-laden premieres at Sundance this year it felt like this was a secrety studio-sponsored vanity project to help the director earn some indie credibility points - it failed in that respect and as a film in its own right .
I just rented ( yes ! I paid money to see ! ) this film . OMG . It is one of the very worst films I have ever seen . As another reviewer put it , Ms. Colagrande , get out of films , PLEASE ! Please never make or appear in another film ! The lady has the charisma of a cantaloupe . No , that 's not fair to the cantaloupe , which probably has more going for it . She does not know how to act ; she affects a disgusted look ALL the time ( reminded me very much of my always-disgusted young sisters-in-law from Europe ) . She is not charming ; she is not pretty . There is no real story . And the editing ! There WAS N'T any , that I could see ! It 's pretty bad when you are watching a film and , just to get through it , you press `` forward forward '' on your remote , and STILL nothing happens ! I mean ! ... .. I kept involuntarily screaming , `` Cut ! Cut ! '' What WERE they thinking ? Well , obviously , they thought they would make a film together and get PAID to make love on screen ! Pretty good deal for THEM ; pretty raw deal for the viewer ! I think I 'm going to throw up now ... .
Im still in doubt if this is just a horrible movie or the worse movie i ever saw . Actors are painful and its impossible to get into the text . Do n't waist your time into this movie . By submitting this comment you are agreeing to the terms laid out in our Copyright Statement . Your submission must be your own original work . Your comments will normally be posted on the site within 2-3 business days . Comments that do not meet the guidelines will not be posted . Please write in English only . HTML or boards mark-up is not supported though paragraph breaks will be inserted if you leave a blank line between paragraph.By submitting this comment you are agreeing to the terms laid out in our Copyright Statement . Your submission must be your own original work . Your comments will normally be posted on the site within 2-3 business days . Comments that do not meet the guidelines will not be posted . Please write in English only . HTML or boards mark-up is not supported though paragraph breaks will be inserted if you leave a blank line between paragraph .
I read all these reviews on here about how this is a such a good movie . Jeez , this movie was predictable and pretty boring . The acting was below average most of the time , especially by Mckenna . I have n't seen a more pathetic attempt at making someone `` badass '' in a movie . Oh man , this movie was a letdown . I also read somewhere this might be a cult classic . I know there are followers of the director , but this movie was just a average piece of film . The script was lame , for the most part the acting was lame , this movie was lame . Oh and pray for the guy that used to be in Cheers . He looks really bad . The best actor in this movie was probably the guy in Office Space , and he was only in this movie for about 8 minutes . 4/10
Anyone who has seen 'Shine ' , Scott Hicks film of the heartbreaking yet ultimately joyful life of the pianist David Helfgotts ; will I am sure realise that 'The SOLOIST ' is very poor in comparison.It is as slow as a lullaby ( I took five breaks answering emails just to wake up ) . The depiction of the homeless area way over the top and extremely self indulgent , on a par I fear with the awful beach battle depiction in Joe Wrights other disaster Attonment . .J Fox performance was an extremely poor example of acting and lacked credibility from the offset.Downey on the other hand ; although struggling with a badly paced film , still manages to charm,9Is it me or is he turning into George Clooney in more ways than one ? ) . Comparing both these well known so called 'STAR'actors though is unnecessary as the light that shines brightest as far as acting is concerned must be that of 'shine 's ' Geoeffry Rush who 's brilliant performance definitely SHONE far brighter in my sky . With both 'Attonment ' and 'The Soloist ' the written word wins far more prizes for empathy of subject . Read the book and articles or wait for the DVD its bound to be in the bargain basement soon .
This is one of the worst movies ever made . Trite . Predictable . Flat . The only thing that rated one point was there was a few nice scenes highlighting Barcelona . I imagine they would use films like this in Guantanamo or some other hidden CIA/NSA prison to torture suspects . Often bad movies have some redeeming features , this has nothing . If I was in it or worked on it , I would change my name . Truly a turd . Hard to write more than this , but I feel the world 's film watchers needed a head 's up on this . On the other hand it will make a great gift for people you ca n't stand . You could send it to politicians you dislike , in laws , ex-wives , Teachers you hated , former employees , Dick Cheney , W. , and a host of others .
( 48 out of 278 people found this comment useful , and counting ... ) People are such suckers for image and looks - as much as for the intellectually hollow `` idealism '' that lurks behind Communism . Che 's charisma and looks have as much to do with his iconic stature as the misinformation that has been spread by Leftist propaganda ( such as this movie ) about him . I do n't know what 's worse : being captured by one of Che 's murder-squads or having to sit through 4 hours of this typically Soderberghian garbage . The question is n't why this pet-project was made but what took them so long . By `` them '' I 'm referring , of course , to Left-wing Hollywood and its `` secret '' love of Marxist tyrants ( Lenin , Castro ... take your pick ) . I am fascinated that it took decades for one of Tinseltown 's least talented liberal directors to finally take on such an irresistibly biased propaganda project . Where was Oliver Stone all these years ? Robert Redford ? Tim Robbins ? Warren Beatty ? Alan Pakula ? George Clooney ? Barbra Streisand even ? It 's a mystery . All these overrated `` artists '' have often indulging themselves in similar , politically one-sided projects , yet somehow Che Guevara , who is arguably the most popular and well-known Communist , has n't been a film topic of theirs yet . `` Guerrilla '' has all the hallmarks of an American truth-bending story of an epic scale ; there is as much factual detail to be found here as in other similar Hollywood big-budget political fairy-tale bios such as `` Malcolm X '' or `` Gandhi '' , i.e . almost none . The movie stars Del Toro as the famous Argentinian revolutionary . Nevertheless , however controversial and criminal this man 's actions may have been , one thing nobody could take away from him : he was an intelligent manipulator who came from a rich family - which is why Del Toro fits the bill only visually . Del Toro may be an interesting , charismatic actor and he may resemble Guevara physically , but he exudes no intellectual qualities whatsoever , hence he makes Guevara come off as too primitive . Casting such mediocrities as Bratt , Philips and Franka Incompetente only underlines the director 's lack of sound judgment . The movie is to the most part extremely slow ( no surprise there ) , and visually uninteresting . Even a director as brilliant as Kubrick would have carefully considered releasing a movie that goes beyond the 3-hour mark , so it 's quite telling that this Soderbergh , who has only made one or two solid movies and early on in his career , would think that His Oceanic Grandness was up to the task . If you think the film 's length indicates that a bulk of Che 's life has been shown here - then think again . Soderbergh focuses on Che 's last phase , and a lot of the movie is tedious jungle nonsense , full of Guevara 's alleged idealism . ( Psychopaths do n't have ideals . ) I do wonder what kind of a mind this highly esteemed director has to have to actually choose to ignore some of Che 's earlier life . Did he actually consider it too uninteresting ? A massacre of 600 people holds no interest for the viewer , huh ? Amazing . Some much better directors than this over-praised charlatan would have easily fit not one but two complete biographies into a 4-hour movie . Soderbergh , in a sense , becomes an accomplice by never addressing the negative , dark side - which is more than 90 % - of Guevara . By spreading this kind of historical inaccuracy , consciously ignoring the ugly truth ( God forbid he should taint the holy image of Che ) , Soderbergh proves himself not a humanist - a fake image which most Hollywood and pop music personalities struggle very hard all their careers to uphold - but the opposite : that he cares only about ideas , never about the people on whom these ideas are tested ( like on guinea pigs ) . Soderbergh and the like are elitists of the worst kind ; such people often have a latent contempt for the `` proleteriat '' ( what a stupid term ) they 're supposedly siding with . Half of all students around the world wear Che 's image on their red and orange shirts , but without ever knowing why . He has become an iconic figure for clueless , uninformed , very often young people , who think that by having this man 's face on their chest that somehow makes them appear `` edgy '' , intellectual , hip or interesting . In reality , wearing a Che shirt only underlines one 's overall shallowness and total disinterest in self-education . ( Would n't YOU want to find out more about a person before you start advertising his/her face to the world ? ) Wearing Che 's by-now cliché image has become as common as having a Bart Simpson coffee cup . All those `` Che-wearers '' probably know more about Marge 's blue hair than they 'll ever read up on about Fidel Castro 's dead ally . After everything that 'd been done in the name of Marx , one would think that these mongrel `` ideals '' would be finally laid to rest . It seems mankind will never learn . Stalin , Mao , Kim Il , Pol Pot , Castro , Milosevic , Ceausescu , the Iron Curtain , a hundred million dead , more than a billion ruined physically and/or mentally through this system ... so none of that matters , huh ? The fact that Del Toro won a Cannes Award should only surprise those who are absolutely clueless as to how Cannes and other European festivals work - and vote . Hint : Sean Penn headed a jury not long ago . For my music-related rants , go to : http : //rateyourmusic.com/collection/Fedor8/
Ladies and Gentlemen , please do n't get fooled by `` A Stanley Kubrick '' film tag.This is a very bad film which unfortunately has been hailed as one of the deadliest horror films ever made.Horror films should create such a fear that during nights people should shiver their hearts out while thinking about a true horror film.In Shining , there is no real horror at all but what we find instead is just a naive , foolish attempt made to create chilling horror.Everyone knows as to how good the attempts are if they are different from reality.All that is good in the film is the view of the icy valley . The hotel where most of the actors were lodged appears good too.A word about the actors Jack Nicholson looks like a lost , lazy soul who is never really sure of what he is supposed to do.There is not much to be said of a bald , colored actor who for the most of times is busy pampering a kid actor.No need to blame the bad weather for the tragedy.It can not be avoided as the film has been made and poor Kubrick is not alive to make any changes .
I saw this film numerous times in the late 60's/early 70 's whenever it reared it 's head like a reindeer with rabies every November-December as a Saturday matinée kiddie show.It was always stiff competition for THE CHRSTMAS THAT ALMOST WAS N'T ( oops-can I SAY `` Christmas '' ? ) , perhaps the greatest , most iconic Christmas-season film of all time.But that 's another review . At the time , I marveled that the on-screen tint of SANTA CLAUS was almost `` pink and white '' , so much had the color of the sprocket-torn prints changed color . The film is kinda creepy ! I thought so then -- and still do , actually . I was highly entertained then , as I still am ! It 's amusing in a `` retarted-elf '' sort of way . By the way , the image quality looks much better on the DVD I have now than it did in the theater , circa 1969-74 . If you are expecting maybe `` the lost RANKIN-BASS Christmas special-forget it ! If you want FELLINI DOES Christmas -- read on ... By nature , the dubbing on these foreign films ( the original version here was in Spanish ) always makes them seem `` surreal '' . This adds to the films inherent oddness . It is also pretty scary in that a `` mishevious demon '' ( as described in the original US trailer ) spends the entire film trying to turn decent kids `` evil '' . One particularly nightmarish scene has a young `` latch-key '' boy wishing he had parents for Christmas-suddenly the `` port-a-family '' emerges out of giant `` Christmas presents-of-the-mind '' until he realizes he 's just daydreaming ! See this , Christmas lovers -- and if you 're a stoner , save your stash -- this film will make you think you 're hallucinating ... without drugs !
Everything in this film is bad , the story , the acting , the effects but its funny , funny , funny ! ! ! Scott Valentine with the army uniform thats ten sizes too big is so bad with the permanent attempt at a scowl on his face as the leader of a special ops group its hilarious ! The `` terrorists '' are as scary and realistic as the `` raptors '' , this is so phoney and bad at everything it tries you have to laugh .The part where the giant T-REX who somehow snuck on board a ship and then somehow got below is blown up and you see the metal pole sticking up where its head was is the perfect ending .If your into bad films , this is the pot of gold , the mona lisa of b-b-bad ! ! !
Yep , lots of shouting , screaming , cheering , arguing , celebrating , fist clinching , high fiving & fighting . You have a general idea as to why , but can never be 100 % certain . A naval knowledge would be an advantage for the finer points , but then you 'd probably spot the many flaws . Not an awful film & Hackman & Washington are their usual brilliant , but the plot was one you could peg pretty early on . I 'm still waiting to see a submarine film where people get on with each other & do n't argue , but then you probably would n't have a film . 4/10
! ! ! ! ! POSSIBLE SPOILER ! ! ! ! ! You ` d think a story involving Archie Grey Owl - An Englishman posing as a red indian - would have a massive amount of humour involved . In fact I ` d say the only way to treat a film like this where a remarkable man cons the gullible public is to treat it as a comedy . However Richard Attenborough commits something akin to a crime by making GREY OWL a serious drama . Worse , he ` s made an extremely dire film too . Pierce Brosnan lacks the charisma needed for the title role and the romantic subplot between Grey Owl and Pony ( Played by the equally wooden Annie Gaupeau ) lacks any type of on screen chemistry . But to be fair to the cast their not helped with the script which fails to portray Archie as the cheeky chappy he is of fooling everyone into believing he ` s a native American . The producers and screenwriter have made the major error of having the film centre around the plot twist of Archie being an Englishman - That ` s why I wrote `` Possible spoiler `` it ` s not actually revealed untill late in the film that the title character is English , but it ` s obvious that everyone who viewed this movie knew that beforehand hence there ` s absolutely no surprise involved . Yes I do agree with everyone that the scenery is lovely and that it has a deep ecological message which isn ` t actually a new concept . Theodore Roosevelt was the first important environmentalist of the 20th century if truth be told . And it should also be remembered that with the exception of SOYLENT GREEN ( And possibly THE TWO TOWERS if you want to class it as having a green message ) that there hasn ` t actually been a great ecological film . In fact most environmentally concious films suck and that includes GREY OWL , a film that unsurprisingly had a serious problem in finding a distributor
How sad there is no option to post a mark lower than 1 . I watched this piece of nonsense and could barely believe what i was watching . Every single part of the film was awful . Music , acting , direction , story , everything , simply everything . I actually found myself laughing out loud at various points in the film . I particularly loved the bit where our hero is dashing through the hospital in soft focus slow motion , and knocks the clipboard out of the nurses hand , because , ... ... ... ... .well . Just because . Product placement ? Crucifix 's ( crucifi ? ) everywhere . If you are of a Christian persuasion and very easily satisfied , you may like this movie . If you do like this movie , you really need to get out more .
While this outing certainly does n't live up to its predecessor , it does have more than its share of memorable moments . My personal favorite , just after laying waste to a city block with his `` Videodisc Cannon , '' we see a close up of Nimoy 's face . As a single tear sheds from his left eye , we know at that point that Nimoy is more than just a killing machine . The viewer ca n't help but be pulled into his emotional turmoil and we understand that his previously flat affect was only a facade . Absolute brilliance ! ! ! The sex scenes display a nice balance , carnal , but not pornographic . Afterwards , I felt I had a pretty good understanding of how to work the Magnavision Videodisc Player . Too bad they have n't produced them in over 25 years .
I read the novel some years ago and I liked it a lot . when I saw the movie I could n't believe it ... They changed everything I liked about the novel , even the plot . I wonder what did Isabel Allende ( author ) say about the movie , but I think it sucks ! ! !
I have three comments to make about this film , which I discovered hanging out forlornly in a lower shelf at Blockbuster . First off , it is interesting to see the approaches film makers take in trying to film essentially unfilmable works . Some have , as Kubrick did with `` Lolita '' , gotten the original author to write a screenplay that is something like the original work . Of course that ca n't happen here ; Kraft-Ebing is long dead . Some have used the premises of the original work as a launch point to go in a completely new , unrelated direction ( the recent adaptation of `` Tristram Shandy '' comes to mind here ) . You can dumb it down - the film of `` Slaughterhouse Five '' is to my mind an example of that . Or you can simply take the format of the original and try to render it in cinematic vignettes . That would be the approach of Woody Allen 's `` Everything You Wanted to Know About Sex '' , and , arguably , this film . Upon consideration , it is probably the only thing one can do with a scholarly work like `` Psychopathia Sexualis '' . The potential loss is that whatever cumulative point the original work had is obscured or destroyed . And so it is here . Point two is the cinematic style . Some would call it an `` homage '' to Murnau , Pabst , Carl Dreyer , etc. , but I think it more crude than that . Its far too heavy handed and self-conscious to be effective for long . It is eventually just annoying . Point three is perhaps a less intellectual observation . How did the people responsible for this manage to make a film about wild sexual deviations and perversion that is so incredibly boring ? I found the film impossible to pay attention to , and anyone who is not automatically drawn to depictions of sexual deviance will find it so as well . I do n't want to be completely uncharitable and say the film is pointless , but I have to say that whatever point the film makers had is rather obscured by the nature of the source material , the overt copying of filmic styles , and the stubborn refusal to engage the audience on an emotional level ( possibly for fear of being accused of titillation ) . The film is a dubious exercise from the start and does n't really work for me , I 'm sorry to say .
This is a well made informative film in the vein of PBS Frontline . The problem is , Frontline already did this piece and managed to bring L. Paul Bremer in to tell his side of the story . More troubling is the fact that the director of the film , Charles Ferguson -- a former think tank wonk , was a war supporter until the occupation went south . What did he think would happen ? The invasion of Poland went really well too until it was messed up by those pesky Nazis.And that is what this film feels like -- an apology for occupation rather than a deconstruction of the act of war itself . Ferguson seems to suggest that the war could have been run better -- as if any war can be better .
I gave Timecop a perfect 10 , I gave this 1 It 's story is very boring , and it has only little to do with the original Timecop . Lots of things from Timecop was scrapped , and they put in new stupid stuff instead . This story is taking place in 2060 ( if I remember correctly ) , but for some reason the timetraveling is now more dangerous : confused : And the action scenes are nothing to be happy about , well most of them are n't ... only the first one is great ... and there are n't many action scenes at all , and they 're all pretty short At one point in the story , the main character travels through time about 5 times within a few minutes ... no wait , make that two times ... In short : Do n't waste time watching this movie , it 's not worth it
Boring , badly written Italian exploitation flick.Lots of nudity , gore and awful acting.The werewolf makeup was the only thing that would raise a laugh.Complete rubbish-even for fans of cheesy Italian horror.Please avoid .
OK , not possibly , honestly the worst movie i 've ever seen . this made absolutely no sense , there was no plot , no characterization , no acting , just nothing . here 's what i thought when i first saw it may 28th , 2003 **caution , this is a spoiler alert . it 's also alot of me complaining about how bad the movie is : : ok so the movie begins and the characters are introduced , but there is no character explanation . as far as i knew the main character was new to this school , but apparently not . also it appeared that he lived by himself ... then that he was a foster kid ... then that his mother was a raging alcoholic who lived with him still . also all his friends apparently had no parents and lived by themselves . now we come to a main plot point , this insane guy has broken out of the insane asylum and is running rampant . now our main character is obsessed with this guy and focus ' intently on him for the contingency of the movie . i think i must have missed a main plot element here , there was no REASON for the main character to get hooked . even if that 's the point , having no reason , why do all his friends , who are skeptical like 5 minutes before , suddenly follow him and do what he wants . so the movie continues on , and it gets all right . they 're running havoc on the school , blah blah blah . but wait a minute ... suddenly everyone knows that the main character is running the 'show ' here . wait a second , did n't the insane guy specifically tell the main character NOT to do that ? it was supposed to be anynomous . ah another important plot element has been skipped over ... the insane guy was supposed to not be insane ... everyone said he was n't insane . but as the story goes on , he is VERY CLEARLY OUT OF HIS MIND . but i thought the news people said he was n't ... hm ... now the movie comes to a close . THAT WAS THE CLOSE ? WHAT THE HELL WAS THAT ? not only did the ending not answer any questions about the main character , it did n't answer any questions about the insane guy . are these people in the same situation ? if yes , then there are some very basic story lines that do not tend to this . if no then what is the point in saying `` that 's you in two weeks. '' ? ? *end of the thing ... * that 's what i thought then . that is pretty much what i still think now . it 's 6 months down the line , and if i can get it for free , i might give it another chance , but i doubt it . i highly doubt it .
Watching `` Der himmel über Berlin '' as a teen in the late 80 's was a profound experience for me - `` so this was what the movies could be '' . Along with `` Paris , Texas '' and `` Until the End of the World '' it still holds a special place in my heart and mind - a testament to the genius of Wim Wenders . Unfortunately later years has seen a steady decline in the quality of his work with `` Million Dollar Hotel '' and `` Land of Plenty '' hitting a terrible low point . Gone are the captivating pictures or music . No search for or display of great insight . All that is left are characters and thinly veiled political statements , that boils down to nothing but clichés , and quite frankly mock the intelligence of a mature audience . Has the well run dry ? Whatever the reason , it 's time for Mr. Wenders to either step it up or stop altogether .
I really wanted to like this movie , but it was just imposable . The acting was ultra hammy , the plot was annoying , and the pace was SLOW , sooo slowwwwww . The whole time sitting in the theater i wanted the movie to end . Twenty minuets into a films and I 'm praying for an ending . Sure some of the visuals were nice , but c'mon guys , I mean really ! And for a movie about a guy tuning magical instruments there really was n't much music to speak of . The music there was was annoying , and boring . There were sound loud shrill sounds at times too , those were also annoying . Mainly this film managed to bore me , and creep me out at the same time . I 'm glad its over . I need to go see `` Tideland '' and wash this bad taste out of my mouth .
How hard is it to write a watchable film with Vince Vaughn , Paul Giamatti and Kevin Spacey ? Apparently VERY difficult for the writers here . I still have no idea how Santa is younger and looks 20 years older than Vince ( who plays the BIG brother ) . I must have missed that part of the story but in reality , it really did n't matter . Many scenes seemed out of place and contrived ; the kind of `` funny notion '' scenes that are drug out WAY too far to where any sense of comedy is lost . The director/producer tried to go `` tear jerker '' at the end , which would have been suitable if ANYTHING leading up that point had been worth following . Ugh , major disappointment . I can see how some people might enjoy this OK , since many people will take any garbage they 're fed , but I would strongly encourage waiting for DVD on this one . NOT worth the $ 23,978 it takes to get your family to the movies these days .
Nahhh ! Leila ( Grace Mills ) is a teenager turned on to Satan ( and LSD ) by her archaeologist fiancé Richard . There 's a neighborhood hippie demon cult hanging out at the local decrepit ancient castle , where Leila and Richard drink blood , drop drugs , join in sex orgies , dance to lame psychedelic rock and participate in black mass ceremonies where the guys wear pants , masks and capes and the women do n't wear anything at all . Unfortunately , these kind of extracurricular activities have left Leila open to demonic possession from the dreaded `` spirit of evil . '' Leila also comes from a screwed up family , which does n't help either . Her older brother John is a recluse who seems to be in love with her . Her mother Patricia ( Maria Perschy ) is depressed because she thinks she was responsible for the father 's death . To top it off , her sister ( Maria Kosti ) is a slutty semi pro golfer named ( gasp ! ) Debbie Gibson . There 's plenty of hired help around also to waste more time . Two maids ( a young one who takes her clothes off a lot and an old one who spies on everyone ) , plus Udo ( Luis Induni ) , a bald voyeuristic handyman who spies on Leila changing clothes , takes nude pictures of her and sneaks into the pool house to take a sniff of her freshly used bathing suit . Oh yeah and Borg , the pet German Shepherd . Paul Naschy is Father Adrian Dunning , the doubting priest ( zzzzz ) who starts snooping around after John and Richard both have their heads twisted around backwards . Leila tells him `` They say I am perverse and I 'm going to prove it is true ! '' During her birthday party , she tells her guests `` You make me sick ! I hate you all ! '' and when mom suggests having a doctor come over she she screeches `` I do n't want to see that fat ass ! '' Debbie suggests they commit Leila to a `` sanitory , '' but Leila runs off and joins the cult again . She is rescued ( again ) and brought back home ( for the third time ) . By this point in the movie , there 's only about ten minutes left to go and all we 've basically seen is some very boring scenes of characters talking and whining about how terrible and f-ed up their lives are and how Leila is acting weird . It 's almost as agonizing to sit through as an Andy Milligan movie , minus the gore and laughs . But finally during the last few minutes we get the movie the title implies - an EXORCIST-like possession flick . Unfortunately , the best part of it are the contact lenses Leila gets to wear . Some cheap time-lapse slashes appear on her arms , legs and face , she gets scabby lips and her eyes take on the appearance of blue and white marbles . She begins reeking of rotted flesh , spits up some clear gunk , starts speaking in her dead dad 's voice , sneaks into her mom 's bedroom , slaps her around a bit and calls her a `` filthy bitch of a whore . '' In comes Father Adrian , who now finally believes she is indeed possessed , fends off her attempts at seduction , hallucinates frogs and eels are in the kitchen and douses Leila with holy water . Doors open and close , a mirror breaks , there 's sudden thunder and her bed rises up off the floor . After she tackles Dunning and the two roll down the stairs , the spirit is out of her and into - guess who ? Why , Borg the family pooch ! The demon dog then turns on Adrian and chews him up a little before he impales it on a fire poker . Then we get one of the most irritating final shots ever committed to film . It 's Leila on the floor going from her hideous appearance back to her normal sexy self . But then there 's ANOTHER time-lapse effect that sort of seems to suggest that the demon has possibly reentered her body . It 's so badly done , you really have no clue what to make of it , which is the final slap in the face to anyone who has just realized they 've wasted an hour and a half on this worthless POS . Screw the contacts , 1 out of 10 it is .
My friend 's mom used to work at a video store and got to preview movies before they came out , so when she brought home The Convent , a horror movie , i could n't wait to watch it . Given that it 's supposed to be scary but is actually downright hilarious , I can say that in some weird way , I like this movie . yes , the acting is bad , and yes , it 's the cheapest movie i 've ever seen , but it 's so damn funny ! `` WHAT , ARE YOU SMOKING CA-RACK ? ! '' i did n't know this movie even was ever released ... i figured it was too bad ... Yeah , so ... overall the movie is pretty bad ( you got ta admit that much at least ) but I promise you , you will get a good laugh out of it . *this movie kinda sucks but it 's good for a laugh ... especially that guy that holds the 'dagger of despair'.. THE DAGGER OF DESPAAAAAAIR !
# # # Spoilers ! # # # What is this movie offering ? Out of control editing and cinematography that matches up with a terrible plot . It is sad to see Denzel Washington 's talents go wasted in trashes like this.We are certainly hinted how the Mexicans can not save themselves , outside forces needed , possibly militaristic , American ones . And we know the father is a shady character , he is a Mexican after all , unlike the wife who appreciates Creasey more because he is American . He killed all of them thinking she died . And did she ? Of course , she wo n't , she is a young kid and you are not supposed to hurt the sensibilities of the Hollywood fan . The trade off scene was the only thing that prevents me from rating it below the `` implausibly successful '' ( as some critic pointed out ) 'Taken ' . The nausea of such movies will take time to go . It is in the rating of such movies that we have to doubt IMDb 's credulity.7.7 for a movie like this and 7.0 for My Own Private Idaho . Go figure ! Mine will be in the range of 3.5-4.0
Dietrich Bonhoeffer 's writings have had a profound influence on my life as a Christian , and I eagerly anticipated watching this movie and finding out more about his life . Words can hardly express my disappointment . This movie was disjointed ... it gave no background about his life , no historical context , and nothing about his great writings ( except a brief , passing reference to `` The Cost of Discipleship '' by a colleague at the beginning of the movie . ) Instead , we see him enjoying jazz ( apparently in the States ) and chilling out with his friends before he decides to go back to Germany . Apparently to show his human side . OK , I 'm ready for the dramatic part . The part where he stands up for his faith . Instead of emphasizing that , we get a very badly acted romance with a 17-year-old schoolgirl . Whether or not that actually took place , it should not have been a major portion of the movie . Now ... still waiting for the dramatic part , or some narration explaining what his writings were all about ... or SOMETHING to make us know a little bit of the greatness of this man . drum-roll ... ..waiting ... .. ... .waiting ... ..ZIP . Nada . This is the kind of movie that gives `` Christian Films '' a bad name . All they had to do was set up a structure for the movie to follow , with some background ... even some voice-overs , or flashbacks to him preaching from his works ... some narrative about who he was and where he had been . But no ... this is what we got . Hardly fitting for a hero of the Faith .
Just finished watching American Pie : Beta House and I got ta say , this was such a garbage pile of crap . The first 3 American Pies were hilarious , the last 3 were a joke and should not have been called American Pie . As you figured out from the title of the movie , Beta House , is about a fraternity , freshmen , girls and , the most original part of them all , falling in love . Of course , the guy that has his way with the chicks is Stifler , who , along with his mates , tries to complete another apparently impossible task . It was unrealistic and super fake . Its just really predictable and the plot is so weak . Both sides of the college battle to see who gets the whole thing ( something like that ) To sum it up : awful acting + dull script + wrong use of the American Pie franchise = total waste of time ! This movie is unbearable . I give it a two out of ten , although most of it sucked there were lots of nudity and pretty girls , like 2 funny scenes : )
I give this movie 3 out of 10 because I have watched zillions of movies and I can tell clearly what an intellectual movie with a mind-teasing message should look like . Definitely , The Broken is not one of those movies . I have to admit that the movie made me think a lot trying to understand what the whole thing was trying to lead to and despite the explanations I 've read in prior comments , they seemed only an exaggeration just to have one self in the intellectual league of people . the photo on the cover clearly shows that the Broken is the broken upper piece of the face which normally contains the brain . It 's a clear message that once this part of the body is broken the rest will be deformed and lifeless . So , you start waiting on the movie characters to show their defected sides and this is not obvious in any of the scenes because the movie starts right away without any introduction to the characters and their lives before . Though we see the father holding a rifle when his children try to surprise him as if he is aware he has enemies but still this is not a very strong clue . Had the clues been planted more in the movie , one would have said about that it is a masterpiece indeed . But though the movie was so slow in pace , it was at the same time so empty with no metaphorical scenes at all . And the reuniting of the evil dad with the evil Gena at the end is a strong refuting evidence of the existential messages that some people spoke about in other comments . Furthermore , if Gena truly lives in the apartment as her brother tells her at the end , then how come she is the evil one ? I bet I can defy any theory about this movie with so many questions that can only lead to one conclusion : This movie is a pretentious one and a waste of time . Obviously it shows someone trying to make out of a meaningless mystery something which is of no value at all . I am a huge fan of horror movies and specially slasher ones that some people call popcorn movies . Horror movies are not supposed to convey deep messages ! They 're supposed to uncover the beautiful mask of life and show you the other dark side of it which is the truest , I guess . Horror movies should have blood , screams , intensity , skeletons , body organs and parts . Because that is the real horror and it 's never away from reality . I have watched almost all horror movies and I can prove that each one of them can be as real as the sunrising . Nothing is unreal as long as the mind had thought of . For instance , the horror movie `` Train '' with all the slashing and tensity of it and its similarity almost in everything with `` Hostel '' , it speaks about a very real thing which is selling body organs illegally by abducting people in foreign places where no one would ask or search for them . And even if we considered the Broken a movie that has an existential message , it is still very poorly presented and the least scary . I prefer the addiction message presented in Requiem for a Dream which went beyond drug addiction to highlight the fact that any kind of addiction whether for sex , TV , safety/being pampered , etc ... can be so destructive and it scared the hell out of me . And those who always criticize horror movies for being meaningless and very commercial , are usually just bunch of people who get scared easily and simply do n't like this genre but this does n't mean that there are fans of such movies and that they have a lot to offer to the viewer from adrenaline turmoils , ecstasy , leadership lessons ( believe it or not ! ) , entertainment to most importantly the face to face interview with the essence of life , as ugly and scary as it may seems , Death !
Beautiful attracts excellent idea , but ruined with a bad selection of the actors . The main character is a loser and his woman friend and his friend upset viewers . Apart from the first episode all the other become more boring and boring . First , it considers it illogical behavior . No one normal would not behave the way the main character behaves . It all represents a typical Halmark way to endear viewers to the reduced amount of intelligence . Does such a scenario , or the casting director and destroy this question is on Halmark producers . Cat is the main character is wonderful . The main character behaves according to his friend selfish .
It 's funny . I 've seen a bunch of Fassbinder films and I have found some to be extremely creative and interesting , while others are repellent and self-indulgent messes -- like this film . For me , it ranges from great to crap -- without much in the middle . I know he has a lot of fans among the `` sophisticated '' , but I ca n't help but think that a lot of his appeal is pure hype . From my point of view ( and I know I will get a lot of negative ratings for this ) , he made too many movies too quickly and was too self-indulgent . His gay or gender-bending films ( like this one ) tend to be really bad -- sloppily done , sometimes quite boring ( such as QUERELLE and THE BITTER TEARS OF PETRA VON KANT ) and sometimes just gross ( like this film ) . Could n't his message about acceptance of a person 's gender-confusion be handled better than showing him get slapped around or watching cows being gruesomely slaughtered ? Show some sensitivity for the subject matter and make your characters more human and sympathetic -- then , maybe , I 'd care about the films . I 'm honestly at the point after watching this film that I might not bother with any more Fassbinder films -- the bad seems to be out-weighing the good .
The problem is the role of the characters in the film . Man to Man shows a British anthropologist kidnapping two pygmies and taking them to Scotland and then realising that they are not animals or subhumans but actually equal to himself . The problem is the role of the pygmies in the film - two people who are kidnapped , treated like animals , and yet given such a shallow , stereotypical role within the film ... The kidnapper ( british anthropologist ) ends up being the hero of the film because he 'manages ' to relate to the pygmies ... No notion of how the two hostages feel , of their point of view , of their ordeal ... I find it is a shallow film , with a one sided fundamentally racist view ... it never manages to move away from the 'white mans ' view
1940 . - A visit to the Lodz ghetto in Nazi-occupied Poland , recorded by a German cameramen with the naive co-operation of the Jewish community , is combined with archival footage , clips from international newsreels , and excerpts from related cultural films to portray the World 's Jews as swindlers and parasites . This 'documentary ' interprets Jewish life from the viewpoint of traditional anti-Semitism and Nazi ideology . A candid , cinematically-unique expression of racial hatred . I personally find this film frightening and highly offensive . One can only hope that such pictures as this will never reach the screen again .
Jean Luc Godard 's Marxist polemic is as close to unwatchable a film as you 're likely to see from an internationally respected filmmaker . Bits of political theater , mind-numbingly boring and interminable , are interspersed with the making of `` Sympathy for the Devil '' , featuring the Rolling Stones in the studio . The process of the song 's development , from Mick Jagger playing a demo on acoustic guitar , to the backing vocals being recorded towards the end , is fascinating , and it 's worth renting this film just to see the bits with the Stones . Almost half the movie is devoted to this , so thanks to the miracle of chapter stops , you can skip all the bizarre political skits and just watch the Stones put a song together . When I had this on laserdisc , I valiantly attempted to watch it all , but I do n't see how anyone could get through it . I finally gave up and just chapter-skipped my way to the Stones segments .
Amy Poehler and Rachel Dratch are among the funnier women to have been on `` Saturday Night Live '' . It 's unfortunate that they , along with Tina Fey and Maya Rudolph , were on SNL during the longest stretch of unfunny writing and sketch-making ( circa 2002-2006 ) the show has ever had . Still , these two women most especially know what 's funny , and they know how to write a funny movie . You 'll notice in the credits of this movie that Dratch and director Ryan Shiraki wrote the story for `` Spring Breakdown '' , but who wrote the actual screenplay , consisting of dialogue and all the important fill-in-the-blank material that makes a story into a multidimensional movie ? Yep , just Shiraki . Just one guy wrote the dialogue for this movie , and no women apparently wrote the script with him . The result is a pretty cliché spring break movie that does n't so much spoof the faux holiday as much as exploit it equally as much as MTV does every year . If Dratch , Poehler , and even co-star Parker Posey could have contributed their handwriting to the screenplay , it would have been far less cliché . The premise is original , being about three thirty-something women who were unpopular in high school ( and apparently college , too ) who never had the fun spring break trip they allegedly dreamed about . I say `` allegedly '' because you never quite know what fun is to these characters . They entered talent shows in the past where they sing stale pro-woman anthems like `` True Colors '' , and spend their nights together holding make-your-own-pizza parties . Even though none of them are especially unattractive , the outside world appears to treat them like they are . There 's a scene where a blind student of Poehler 's ( played by Poehler 's real life husband Will Arnett ) asks her out on a date , only to touch her face and immediately change his mind . If Poehler 's character is supposed to be unattractive , they obviously hired the wrong actress . The movie continues to show promise , even though we have our doubts about the main characters , when Posey 's boss , Texas Senator 'Kay Bee ' Hartmann ( Jane Lynch , funny as always ) hires Posey to watch over her unpopular college-age daughter ( Amber Tamblyn , playing yet another woman who 's attractive in real life , but not in the eyes of any characters in this movie ) while she goes to a Laguna Beach-like vacation spot for Spring Break . Poehler and Dratch come along , they reluctantly get boozed up , party like they apparently should have when they were in college , and then comes the ultimate showdown with the sorority bitches lead by Sophie Monk . Sophie Monk is an incredibly attractive woman who has a body both women and men would kill to have for different reasons . Unfortunately , her movie career is off to a rough start with the abominably unfunny `` Date Movie '' ( 2006 ) and the disappointing `` Click '' ( 2006 ) . Here , she plays a Southern belle , although her voice sounds like she stole Delta Burke 's voice box . She hams it up a little too much , trying too hard to play a conniving bitch that she comes off as much like a caricature of spoiled college kids as the rest of the extras . `` Spring Breakdown '' was released straight to DVD despite the star power of Amy Poehler , but rightly so because the story is way too cliché . It may as well have been called `` National Lampoon 's Spring Breakdown '' , and the magazine probably would n't have sued for trademark infringement because of the free publicity . If director Shiraki had given at least one woman the creative input , especially Rachel Dratch , this movie would have been great and not nearly as run-of-the-mill as frat-house comedies we 've seen before . I know Dratch will come up with another funny concept , and hopefully be allowed to fill in the rest of the screenplay herself . She 's funny enough , and she deserves better than this half-baked comedy that would accept Stiffler 's brother with open arms .
I 'm no horror movie buff , but my wife 's nieces and nephews are . So , I saw the first movie . It was gruesome , and tense , but not my taste . Still good though . For similar reasons , at this very moment , I am being exposed to a sequel . The premise itself is beyond absurd . I can buy that disasters occur in the desert . I can buy that mutants exists . I can even buy that the events might be so weird and strange that the military may decide to get involved . It is unlikely , yes , but I 'm willing to suspend my belief . HOWEVER , under no circumstances am I willing to believe that the military squad assigned to recon such an area would be unable to fend off the mutants . Being a member of the United States Army , I can assure that while fresh recruits may lack the seasoned eyes and experience of combat soldiers , any such recruits would be integrated into a capable squad . A squad of armed soldiers is not about to be taken out by a few mutants with knives . That 's just the way it works . Squad movements , vastly superior firepower , and of course , radio support , would ensure nothing less than total victory . I 'm not saying you would n't have casualties , but as soon as the area was verified as hostile , military training would take precedence , no-one would go off on their own even to use the bathroom . And if it were discovered that the area was so infested with hostiles that the squad was unable to handle the danger , they would radio in for backup . And believe me , their radios would not be jammed , if there was a chance that normal radios would not do , the squad would have a military issue satellite phone . Chances are , if they were unable to check in every hour , a search would be called . In order to accept this movie , you must accept that our soldiers are incompetent fools , with incompetent leaders , and an incompetent chain of command . While it may still be true that the most dangerous thing in the world is a lieutenant with a map and compass , our military forces are filled with intelligent , well-trained , competent soldiers . Mutants with knives are far below our ability to deal with . With the whole execution of the movie depending solidly on the impossible to imagine , the film fails to deliver . Instead , we are expected to believe that our soldiers , sailors , and airmen are incapable of dealing with even the most mediocre threats . As a combat veteran , I find the movie insulting .
Jesus Christ , I ca n't believe I 've wasted my time watching this movie . I only watched because I have such a crush on Jordan Ladd . But watching this film almost put me off her . This is absolutely awful ! I could have been watching Survivor Series 93 over this . The lead guy in this was so bland and generic . I would love it if the great Mistuharu Misawa Tiger Drove '91 'd his ass through a glass window . I was enraging every time he was saying `` lake '' and `` cabin '' . I 'd kick his ass . Jordan Ladd , on the other hand , was absolutely wonderful . A true angel . But she could n't even save this utter joke of a film . Sadly , she could n't even act like she was off her nut when she took that truth drug . It looked hilarious . I also loved the bit where Jordan accidentally spilled yogurt on her . It reminded me of a time where ... nevermind . Anayways , do watch this film because of it 's awfulness .
I guess this would be a great movie for a true believer in organized Christian Dogma , but for anyone with an open mind who believes in free will , rational thinking , the separation of Church & State and GOOD Science Fiction it is a terrible joke ! There are some well known actors who were either badly in need of work or had a need to share their personal beliefs with the rest of us heathens . I WAS entertained by this movie in the same way I was entertained by `` Reefer Madness . '' That movie attempted to teach drug education by scare tactics the same way this movie tries to teach `` Christian '' principles with the threat of hell and misery for otherwise good people who do n't share their interpretations of our world . It had me howling with laughter and at the same time scared me to realize how many people actually believe that our society should revert to the good old days of the 19th century !
Personally I would advise people to stay clear of this movie . It 's on the whole a bore to watch and the fighting is poorly choreographed . Slow and not very convincing . If you buy the Hong Kong Legends DVD release of this movie , then the only thing worth listening to is the Bey Logan audio commentary . But in any case , since when has there ever been a Ninja film worth watching . I can not think of one and frankly do not wish to . Overall , when it comes to Movies , I have one golden rule : Avoid any films that contains the word 'Ninja ' .
Considering how much money was budgeted for this film , you would expect more from the story as a whole . This could be quite possibly the most worthless movie I have ever watched . There was no real advancement of anything . Character development , minimal . Plot advancement , maybe . Enjoyment , none . I 'm not sure what points were even trying to be made . If you want to see a movie where terrorists are kinda good guys , American CIA bombs everything that does n't agree with our opinions , all capitalists are corrupt , and you like to see anything resembling a storyboard advancement accompanied by a death , have at . For those of us who realize that it does n't take killing off a good guy to make a point , we 'll stick to other movies . In summary , this was a horrible attempt at an 'Ocean 's 11 ' style hide-the-plot-so-person-has-to- think movie because not only do you not know what 's going on , nobody who made the movie did either . Home Alone 3 was a better cinematic piece .
I ca n't believe the positive reviews of this movie - I thought it was one of the worst , most poorly executed and poorly acted movies I have ever seen . And the plot was completely ludicrous ( sp ? ) . She starts making out with him while he 's tied to the chair ? puh-lease . The worst part was that it was n't even bad in a good , laughable way . Just plain terrible - I could n't figure out why they even bothered to show it on HBO . I thought Belushi was ridiculously silly - very unbelievable as an `` eccentric '' hit man . idk , I could go on - again , I am shocked by the positive reviews . The only thing that kept me watching it is that it 's fascinating to see how a movie can go wrong and what makes it bad . And the ending did n't disappoint in its silliness either ! `` live by the sword , die by the sword ... '' ridiculous .
During the cheap filmed in video beginning of Crazy Fat Ethel II , I wondered if it was the same film that was on the cover . Unfortunately , it was . The story itself is mindlessly simple . Ethel , a homicidal maniac with an eating disorder , is released into a halfway house because of hospital overcrowding . She is by far the most sane resident watching while one man puts dead flies into another 's soup . Ethel is then teased by one of the halfway house employees with a chocolate bar after he hits on the cost cutting measure of feeding the residents dog food . Ethel retaliates by strangling him with a wire noose on the stairs and then ... .well , you get the idea . If this all sounds like fun , it is n't . This film was poorly made with cheap effects and even worse acting . The characters are so wooden when delivering their lines that they should be standing out in front of a cigar store . To make matters worse , half of the film consists of flashbacks to the first Ethel movie , Criminally Insane , which is little better . A VERY poor effort .
... not that all Disney films are garbage . Anyway , I saw `` Legend of Boggy Creek '' first and absolutely loved the film . When I heard it had 2 sequels , I was ecstatic . I finally found a copy of this and watched it one night . I do n't see how they can make a G-rated sequel to a horror film . The original is a movie/documentary about the Fauke Monster , and can scare anyone . `` Return '' is for kids and should not be watched by anyone . I do n't remember the plot too well , as it 's been quite some time since I watched it and I will not watch it again , but ... It 's about these hunters coming to town and they go looking to kill Bigfoot . Three little kids sneek out of the house to stop them . A big monsoon comes through . The hunters get hurt , are saved by the kids . Then they all hide out in a boat with a big piece of tarp on top and try to wait out the storm . Then all of a sudden , Bigfoot comes and does something really sick . I do n't wan na ruin the ending for any of yas , but it 's not scary . Well ... .
2 stars , and I 'm being generous . ( minor spoilers ) Look , this is a low budget zombie movie set in gangland Oakland . As the plot goes , a scientist wants to bring his dead brother back to life after being killed in a drive-by . The main problem with this movie : what zombies ? ! All the `` zombies '' do is growl ( which does n't sound even remotely scary ) and drip fake red blood from their mouths ! No scary eyes , no decaying flesh , just a bunch of people growling pathetically and running around like idiots . The cover is also misleading . There are only about 6 zombies in the whole film , so it 's not like the whole `` hood '' is plagued with zombies or anything , it 's just a few , and is contained in no time . The acting actually is so bad it 's hilarious . No one can act at all in this movie ( except maybe one of the gang members ) and it really seems like a bunch of friends got together , decided to cast their family , and made a movie one weekend . Final note : since when do Doctors wear tracksuits ? ! Skip this one , please !
I have no idea why they made this version of `` Persuasion '' when they already had that fine mini-series with Amanda Root and Ciaran Hinds . I suppose that they wanted to make a feature-length version , but of course a lot had to be deleted ; alas , what ended up on the cutting-room floor was all the lovely wit and humour , leaving a film that was mere melodrama rather than an amusing exposition of English country manners and mores . Also , the characters were shallow and uninteresting . They had poor Anne chasing up and down the streets after Captain Wentworth like a silly modern adolescent ( and if you happen to be a silly modern adolescent reading this , let me tell you : running after a male like a female in heat is NOT cool ) . That is something a well-bred woman of the Napoleonic era would never have done , and certainly not this level-headed heroine . Some have said they found this antic laughable ; my reaction was not laughter , but outrage . The very idea of such a corruption of an Austen work is beneath contempt . It was ghastly .
Bobby is a goofy kid who smiles far too much and wants sex . So he buys a van to aid in this quest . The acting is lame , the comedy is pathetic and the script is no more than a loosely strung chain of clichés and cheap thrills . The makers of the film obviously wanted to capture some of the out there craziness of other films of the time , but fell a long way short . They even resort to Bobby slipping on a banana skin , because this will supposedly add comedic value . I 'm struggling to find a redeeming feature of the film . If you like DeVito , this is another classic DeVito kind of role - but he 's only a supporting actor and there for cliché value .
I read in the papers that W.Snipes was broke so no wonder he would take parts in low budget projects like The Contractor.He is just the next action star to join a growing club : the penniless action stars of the 90s ( Van Damme , Segal , Lundgren , Snipes ) . Here he stars the lead in a cheap action flick which was shot in Bulgaria ( we are supposed to believe that the location is London , like only a complete moron would buy that ) The story is the one of 1000 other movies : retired special forces good guy gets hired by the government again to do a wet job- after that government wants to get rid of him- good guy gets away after killing bad guys ( was that a spoiler ? guess not ! ) The star of the movie : the little girl ( Eliza Bennett ) outperforms everybody else of the cast ! ! ! One star is for her plus one star for eye candy Lena Headey , makes 2 stars . Only for die hard Snipes fans ! Everybody else : avoid !
===minor spoilers=== I am , like many others , a huge Jerry Bruckheimer fan . So when I saw all the beautiful posters hanging out front , and the trailer coming by before MI:2 , expectations were rising . A Jerry Bruckheimer production . Big cars . Nic Cage and fresh from an Oscar- Angelina Jolie . What can possibly go wrong ? A lot . The script is neither funny ( which it tries really hard to be ) nor exciting . You put in a black person who is constantly making racist jokes about himself and Wooh-haa ! ! you 've got comedy ? I do n't think so . Excitement is totally out of the picture . First of all ( and this is probably said many times ) there are no sympathetic characters so who cares who gets killed ? IF you can stomach the premise that a psycho is gon na kill Nic 's brother unless he steals 50 cars in 4 days , next thing you know is that Kip ( the brother ) is walking with Nic in the streets again . Is this excitement ? Think not . Then comes the best bit- the romance between Nic and Angelina . She actually looks bored having to utter all these stupid lines to Nic . 'Do you have a girlfriend ? ' 'Are you seeing anybody ? ' 'What went wrong ? ' etc . Then there 's only one sparkle of hope left : the car chases . They 're disappointing to say the least , because the trailer made it look like it was full of them , and there 's only one . A very long one , caught in irritatingly hectic camera movement . I really had trouble following the action . So is it an action movie ? a thriller ? a romantic comedy ? - there 's no need to decide , just avoid this horrible mess . I 'll give 3 out of 10 stars , and I feel like I 'm being generous .
Having seen the first ten episodes , I must say this show sucks . What bothers me the most , is that the show was shot in Canada . I know it 's cheaper , but they should have shot it in California , so we could have had scenes in the desert . That would have been more true to the movie . The first scene where they are outside in another world is in the mountains , with lots of pinetrees where it looks cold . That does'nt feel very Egyptian . What worked so well in the movie was that it felt like you were in the ancient Egypt . Here it feels like they 're running around fighting aliens in a Canadian forrest . And it 's so lame that appaerantly , on other planets , the fall comes as well . You can see leaves on the ground in the forrests that all look like forrests outside Vancouver . It just makes the show even more unbelievable and dumb . And then there is Richard Dean Anderson . He is no Kurt Russel . Sure he does a decent job and he tries to copy Russels performance a little bit , but he is just not as cool as Russel . And not nearly as good an actor as Russel . And Russells way of playing O Neill , well he was much more cynical . Andersons O Neil , is way too soft . I liked it that Russels version just did'nt give a s*** and had no trouble detonating the bomb until the very end of the movie . Michael Shanks does a really good job as Jackson though taking over from James Spader . Teal'c is a really annoying character . He is Jaffa . Not a Jaffa . Just Jaffa . Aaaarrgh ! ! A former bodyguard of a pathetic Ra character , seen only in the pilot and in one other episode so far . Teal'c speaks talks and acts like a robot . I 've seen better acting from Jean Claude Van Damme . And the fact that Teal'c and the Ra character and the people they saved in the movie , can speak English all of a sudden is also incredibly dumb . What made the aliens so scary in the movie was that they spoke an ancient language and were real monsters . As for the special effects , they are really good in the pilot . But the very rare effects in the actual show are badly done and looks cheap . Especially a planet they visit with crystals . It 's so obvious they walk around on a soundstage with a badly made painting in the background . It 's an insult to us viewers that they made it look so cheap . Especially when they could have made it in front of a bluescreen with cgi backgrounds . The X-files had better effects when they aired their first episodes in 1993 . That was 4 years before SG-1 started . And they did'nt have the apparent two million dollar budget per episode , that SG-1 supposedly had . They must have spend all the money on catering . Because I do n't see it on the screen . Incredibly boring and pointless show , that could have been great if they had shot the show in Hollywood with a bigger budget and better writers and better characters .
In a way this is the disaster Fellini has been working towards all his life . The line between absurd masterpiece and free association bullshit is very small , and what category a film will ultimately fit in will often just depend on personal feelings . That said , `` Casanova '' left me in cold admiration for its sets and little more that can not be summed up more adequately by Bukowski : `` Casanova died too , just an old guy with a big cock and a long tongue and no guts at all . to say that he lived well is true ; to say I could spit on his grave without feeling is also true . the ladies usually go for the biggest fool they can find ; that is why the human race stands where it does today : we have bred the clever and lasting Casanovas , all hollow inside , like the Easter bunnies we foster upon our poor children . '' As far as I could make it out , this is the position Fellini takes regarding his subject ; granted , with more empathy , but disgusted nonetheless . Casanova 's environment is made from decay and incestuous behavior , themes Fellini dealt with more pointedly in `` Satyricon '' . The succession of plot is characteristic of soft porn , just without the coherence ; and Donald Sutherland is ugly and slimy to the point of distraction . Yet , there might just be a point in portraying Casanova as an unsightly fool . And I challenge anybody to formulate this point without being obvious ; Fellini could n't . More than ever he seems here like a dirty old man - a maestro , for sure , but one whose impulses satisfy himself more than anybody else . I find it hard imagine an audience who enjoys this film . It was a story not worth telling .
No wonder Pamela Springsteen gave up acting to become a full-time photographer ; it 's a much better idea to have her behind a camera than in front of one . While this movie is not without its interesting elements ( mullets from hell , etc . ) , it is outweighed by flaws . For one thing , Angela , the murderous counselor , appears to be about the same age as the campers . Having an older , more threatening camp director would have done a lot for the film . And then you have the murder scenes . The budget was apparently too low to execute most of them properly ( no pun intended ) , although drowning someone in an outhouse toilet is certainly original . But overall , there are a ton of movies out there that are scarier/more fun to spend an hour and a half of your life watching .
I 'm not sure how related they are , but I 'm almost certain that Lost and Delirious is a remake of this movie ( or the story that it 's based on ) . Very similar plotline , and even some of the scenes and sets seem to be very , very similar . Lost & Delirious is actually a much better movie , so see that one instead . This one moves very slowly , but being a late 60s French movie , that is to be expected of the style . Told in a retrospect from the perspective of one of the girls revisiting the school . The editing of the flashbacks with the current scenes is a little bit confusing at first , particularly since the audio from each overlaps ( ie , hearing flashbacks while seeing the present and vice versa ) . Also , the `` girls '' are a bit old to think that they are in a boarding school . Finally , not much character development to even get you attached to the movie .
The acting is some of the worst I 've ever seen , the characters are totally unconvincing . This could be overlooked to some extent if the plot was interesting , which the plot to `` The Prodigy '' was not . It 's sort of a bad mix between `` Fresh '' and `` Animal House '' , except that both of those movies were good .
( Spoilers ) I was very curious to see this film , after having heard that it was clever and witty . I had to stop halfway because of the unbearable boredom I felt . The idea behind the film would have been acceptable : depicting the way the relationship between a man and a woman evolves , through all the problems and difficulties that two people living in a big city can experience . What made me dislike the whole film were two things . First of all , the film was so down-to-earth that it looked as if , by describing the problems that a couple must solve on a day-to-day basis , it became itself ordinary and dull . Secondly , the overall sloppiness of the production , with dialogues that were barely understandable . Too bad .
I remember when this piece of trash came out , all the newspapers were squawking about how it had taken Barbra Streisand years to get the film made . Well it could n't have taken that many years ; the play only opened in 1975 , eight years previously . It made a Broadway star of the great actress Tovah Feldshuh , who probably should have been cast in the film , but NOOOOO ... the Great STAR BARBRA HAD TO DO IT HER WAY . AND WITH MUSIC NO LESS ! This film is a total disaster from start to finish . For one thing , Barbra was FORTY YEARS OLD when she made it and she looked every minute of it . There was no way anyone could possibly swallow her as a young girl yearning to study Torah . And then when she dresses up as a boy it gets campy . I get the impression that Streisand could not bear to be unattractive so she played around with the make-up ; she is prettier as a boy than she is as a girl . And as if that is not bad enough , she gets involved with both her schoolmate Avigdor ( Mandy Patinkin , whose best moment is the shot of his naked rear end ) AND his fiancée ( Amy Irving , who does her usual sleepwalker routine , a bit of schtick the poor woman always resorts to when the director ignores her and she does not know what she is doing ) . Yentl even goes so far as to marry the girl ; I wo n't even bother to mention the `` wedding night '' scene . Then there is the music . Nine totally forgettable songs , all sung by Streisand via voice-over ( presumably as a look inside her mind ) , and each one as intrusive and irritating as fingernails on a blackboard . I wo n't say that Streisand does not show a glimmer of promise as a director here ; some of the visuals are lovely ( Patinkin 's backside especially ) , and she has a good eye for balance . The problem with this movie is that she wo n't get out of her own way . I did not believe her for one second in the title role ; she should NEVER have added the songs , and on top of that the whole mess goes on for two hours and fifteen minutes . I was sick of the whole sorry mess after forty-five minutes . Awful , awful , awful .
I was interested in the topic , and only fans of Drew Barrymore 's dancing on David Letterman 's desk will find anything remotely interesting in it . OK , she shows some breast ( or maybe a body double does ) . The plot is slashed to bits and the acting is horrible . Neither lead has any material to work with , as the direction of the film leads nowhere . Do n't waste your time . See Donnie Darko instead if you want a creepy Drew Barrymore film , and if you want to see another , skip this and see Darko again . The treatment of the Doppelganger legend is absolutely criminal as well . Refer to Charles Williams ' novel `` Descent Into Hell '' for something worth considering instead . This is just an excuse to make a B film to go straight to video and suck some life out of people at Blockbuster . What makes any of these people think the acting here was praiseworthy ? Give me a break .
Some wonder why there were n't anymore Mrs. Murphy movies after this one . Will it 's because this movie totally blew snot . Disney was not the right studio to run this film . MAYBE Touchstone ( well , they 're owned by Disney , but it 'd be more adult ) . The film is too kid-ish , as the book series is not . The casting is all wrong for the characters . The characters do n't even act the way they do in the books . And why was Tucker changed to a guy ? He 's a girl in the frigging books ! Was this done to make the film appeal to boys ? Sheesh . And where was Pewter , the gray cat ? One of the funniest characters from the book is absent from this filth . Rita Mae Brown is a good writer , but letting Disney blow her work was wrong . An animated feature film , perhaps in the vane of Don Bluth 's artwork would suit a better Mrs. Murphy film . Overall , I give this a 2 , because at least Disney made a film from an under-appreciated book series . But , I wish they did better . Either way , I still have my books to entertain me .
Williamson 's accent is tough to wade through . He speaks incredibly quickly , like he is in a rush to get through the lines . During the soliloquies he acts as if he is talking to someone , when he is supposed to be talking to himself . All that and his bald spot just annoyed me . He was just too old for this role . In reading other accounts of Williamson , maybe he got this role because he was mad and the director decided to do a bit of life-imitates-art or forced method acting . When the actors declare Hamlet mad you believe it ! Marianne Faithful is a stunning beauty and could botch the role of Ophelia and still get a pass . The set is dark and foreboding but it does look as if shot in a real castle especially the scenes in the tunnels/corridors where the dead king shines as a great light in the sky .
Not only did they get the characters all wrong , not only do the voices suck , not only do the writers seriously need to get girlfriends , not only are the drawings really crude , but it seems like it was mainly created for ages 1-6 . The only episode I 've ever seen of this show that kept me watching , was `` A Mattter Of Family '' , because I liked the Robin character . And sometimes I think it 's just a general copy of Batman The Animated Series . Example : In BTAS , Bruce is friends with Harvey Dent , yeah ? Over a two episode story , he transforms into the unlikely villain , TwoFace . In the `` Show '' Bruce is Friends with that Ethan guy , and over a two episode story , he Transforms into the unlikely villain ClayFace . That was just a small example ( That may not even be true ) , but in short , this is the WORST attempt on a Batman series . And That 's saying something .
60 minutes in the beautiful Christina Galbo tries to escape the isolated boarding school she 's brought to at the beginning of the movie . Is she running from some kind of fate too horrible to contemplate , a monster , black-gloved killer , or supernatural evil ? No , she 's running from a bunch of bullies . For the OTHER 40 minutes that follow , various figures walk around the school in the dark holding candelabras and looking alarmed or distraught , which does n't say much in itself perhaps because great movies have been made about just that but if you 're going to have characters walking around corridors and staircases you better be Alain Resnais or you better know how to light that staircase in bright apple reds and purples like Mario Bava . We know a killer stalks the perimeters of the school but his body count is pitiful and sparse and in the absence of the visceral horrors one expects to find in the giallo , we get no sense of sinister mysteries/unspeakable secrets festering behind a facade of order and piety and rightness which is the kind of movie La Residencia wants to be but does n't quite know how to do it . We know something is off because girls are reported missing but we never get the foreboding mysterious atmosphere that says `` something is seriously f-cking wrong here , man '' . When Serrador tries to comment on the sexual repression of the female students , he does so with quick-cutting hysterics and detail closeups of eyes and parted lips while high pitched `` this-is-shocking '' music blares in the background . None of the aetherial beauty and longing of PICNIC AT HANGING ROCK to be found here . It 's all a bit clumsy and aimless , with no real sense of urgency or direction . A number of people are presented as suspects but there 's little reason to care for the identity of a killer that goes unnoticed by the characters inside the movie . I like the first kill , the image of a knife hitting target superimposed over the anguished face of the victim as a lullaby chimes in the background , but the rest is too inconsequential for my taste . I have to say Serrador did much better with the killing children and paranoia du soleil of WHO CAN KILL A CHILD ?
Rather than move linearly from beginning to end , this story line of a gay couple impacted by AIDS `` orbits '' in time around their `` perfect day . '' The film is organized as a life remembered in asynchronous fragments rather than in a sequential flow as one directly experienced . The narration has its lyrical moments , particularly in describing the impact of loss anticipated or experienced . The dialog unfortunately lacks such grace . The script frequently compels the actors to say startlingly stupid or insensitive things that seem utterly out of character at the moment . On their second accidental encounter , clearly smitten with each other , sensitive Phillip encourages a reluctant Guy to tell him about his difficult week . But the moment Guy begins to open up , Phillip , an English Major , blurts out `` You 're not a Crisis Fairy , are you ? '' Later , watching his lover 's naked , chiseled body stride across the bedroom toward him , our young Shakespeare in love begins to render the beauty of the moment in words , `` The way you cut through space ... .I ca n't even describe it '' -- but lacks the verbal skills to complete his thought . This kind of drivel continues through the AIDS Hospice scenes , bejeweled with lines like , `` What made me think death would be all neat and tied up with ribbons ? '' and `` You make Florence Nightingale look like Nurse Ratchet . '' The film often suffers from a bruising lack of subtlety . Unlikable characters are far more jarring and steamroller-flattened than they need to be . Phillip 's thoroughly annoying friends -- an arrogant trust fund brat and a whining , needy dweeb -- maintain a running caustic diatribe about every one crossing their path . Such patter could offer a writer a wealth of opportunities for clever social commentary , but sadly , their remarks are merely unpleasant , ungraced by wit or insight . It 's hard to know if our scriptwriter intentionally crafted intellectually limited characters or if he was simply running his tether 's perimeter . The plot may be what most appeals to and resonates with those who praise this film . It does seriously explore 1980 's US middle class gay life : first encounters , courting , coupling , nesting , the complexity of open relationships , friction and fracturing , dissolution , physical abuse , rapprochement , forgiveness , terminal illness , death and survival . Leads Phelan and Spirtas give fair to good performances rendering complex characters over time . Their fetching good looks help explain both the chemistry that held these two together through insensitivity and selfishness as well as the chemistry that helped some some viewers overlook this film 's painful weaknesses . The decision to chop the plot arc into tidbits and present them in out-of-sequence flashbacks added complexity without any evident dramatic utility , and in several cases left the sequence and thus the implications of a given event unclear . Could I recommend the film ? To sticklers for literary and technical quality , absolutely not ! For easy going viewers in serious need of an AIDS survivor catharsis or in the mood for a guilty-pleasure tearjerker with a little eye candy thrown in , maybe . But better written alternatives exploring the impact of AIDS on relationships of that era include : Philadelphia , And the band played on , Longtime companion , Angels in America , An early frost , Parting glances , Love ! Valour ! Compassion ! and even Jeffrey .
Did I step in something or is that bad smell coming from Daybreak 1 + 2 ? God was behind everything ? What has God got to do with Sci-Fi ? God is only the answer when you ca n't think up a sensible explanation for something . In fact , this is exactly the problem with the series finale - they obviously could n't think up sensible explanations for the multitude of big questions that were raised throughout the series such as how Kara Thrace come back from the dead in a brand new viper , how her old viper and charred body ended up on Earth 2 , why Baltar has an imaginary 6 in his head , why 6 has an imaginary Baltar in her head , etc . so they explain it with `` angels '' or just do n't explain it at all . The plot of the last 2 episodes had holes big enough to fly a Basestar through . For example , why does Galactica and its crew go on a suicide mission to rescue one girl ( Hera ) , particularly after Adama said there was no way he 'd attempt a rescue ? Because they found out the location of the Cylon base ? That 's not a good reason to sacrifice the crew 's lives . And how did Anders know the location ? And what was the point of the flashbacks to the major characters ' lives before the war ? It 's like they forgot to do it earlier so they threw something in at the last moment . The people who wrote the last two episodes could not have been the same writers who created what has been so far a sensational series . Feels like the script writing was take over by evangelical Christians on a mission to spread 'The Word ' . Forget trying to tie up the loose ends in the plot , the important message the writers wanted to get across is : do n't put your faith in technology as it will lead to your destruction ; God is your ultimate salvation ( tough luck if you have an illness that needs medical treatment ) . Imagine in the final movie of the Star Wars series they tell you there is no `` force '' ... instead , a Jedi actually gets his power from Jesus . Then they fly their spaceships into the nearest star and go live in the forest with the Ewoks . Would this be a good ending ? No it frakken ' would n't .
How unfortunate , to have so many of my `` a '' list , and good `` b '' list actors agree to do this movie , but they did , and that is what sucked me into watching it . I had never heard of this movie , but there was Cuba Gooding Jr. right on the DVD cover , and James Woods in the background how bad can it be ? In a word Very ! This movie starts o.k . has some twists and turns , then just lays an egg . The ending was so weak , it was as if the writer got called away and his 4 year old son sat down at the type writer and hacked out the ending . How ironic a for a movie titled `` The end game '' to have such a poor one . These are the types of movies that can move `` a '' list actors to the `` b '' list in hurry . I hope Cuba Gooding JR , and James Woods do n't make a habit of this .
I will warn you here : I chose to believe those reviewers who said that this was n't an action film in the usual sense , rather a psychological drama so you should appreciate it on that basis and you will be alright . I am here to tell you that they were wrong . Completely wrong . Well , no , not completely ; it is very disappointing if you are looking for an action flick , they were right about that . But it is also very unsatisfying on all other levels as well . Tom Beringer was n't too bad , I suppose , no worse than usual ; but what possessed them to cast Billy Zane in this ? Was it some sort of death wish on the part of the producers ? A way to made their film a guaranteed flop ? In that case , it worked . If they were actually aiming for success , then why not cast somebody who can act ? Oh , and might as well go for a screenwriter who knows how to write . Ah , yes , and a director who knows how to direct . As someone who sat through this mess , actually believing it would shortly redeem itself , I can assure you it never did . Pity , it could 've been a good film .
I find it rather useless to comment on this `` movie '' for the simplest reason that it has nothing to comment upon.It 's similar to a rotten egg which has nothing good to show to the world excerpt for the fact that it is rotten as other endless number of eggs have been before it . But since a comment is mandatory for such a grandiose insignificance ... Filth is definitely the proper word to describe this movie created in the same manner as any other Romanian `` movie '' directed by Lucian Pintilie who insists to depict the so called `` Romanian reality '' following the Communist era ( 1990 to present days ) . Under no circumstances recommended for people outside Romania as for the others ( who lately find amateurish camera , lack of plot , lack of directorial / actors 's quality etc , noise etc . as being trendy and even art-like ) : watch & enjoy this `` movie '' ( as I know you will ) but do the other well intentioned IMDb members a favor , do n't write an online review for it will misguide , irritate and in the end waste their time . On the other hand this movie ( among others ) has some value whatsoever , an educational one for it sets the example for : `` How NOT to make a movie . ''
I could n't believe my eyes when I watched Nuremberg yesterday on Dutch television . It starts very slowly , the backgrounds of the Nuremberg trials become clear step by step , the Germans have a funny English accent , but then , suddenly , in the last few minutes of the first part of the series , the audience gets to see the most shocking , horrific footage I have ever seen . It is important that people get to see such footage ( although I absolutely do n't agree with people stating that there is no minimum age at which children can be exposed to this kind of material ) , but in this film it was completely ridiculous . It was purely meant to improve the impact of an ordinary TV series . It was meant to shock the audience which is very cheap and unbelievably easy . In stead of trying to move us with well-done scenes , inspiring dialogue or interesting viewpoint 's , the audience is being tortured with horrible images of skin-and-bones camp inmates . It does n't show any respect for the victims of the holocaust . I 'm very angry .
I 've now watched all four Bo Derek vehicles directed by her husband , John ; all are quite terrible , of course , but this is certainly the pits . Featuring the usual flimsy plot , bad scripting – by the director , naturally – and acting , not to mention gratuitous nudity by the star , it deals with her losing much older husband Anthony Quinn ( she accepts his shotgun suicide by saying he had always admired Hemingway ! ! ) but who continues to appear and talk to her . In fact , he wants to come back in another , younger body but actually does so only in the very last scene ! Derek is lovely as always , and still playing naïve ( ! ) – especially during a muddled mid-section which has her pursued by a hired killer at a spa . Quinn , too , is typically larger-than-life ( read : hammy ) here , but this easily constitutes his nadir ; besides , for much of the duration , he acts from behind a piece of shiny plastic ( presumably suggesting his being in some sort of limbo ) ! His 'replacement ' , then , is obviously a handsome-looking stud who has n't a lick of talent or even personality . Also featured in the cast are Hollywood veterans Don Murray ( as Quinn 's best friend and Bo 's business consultant ) and Julie Newmar ( as Quinn 's guardian angel in the afterlife ) – plus a surprising cameo appearance by billionaire Donald Trump ( who presumably needed this on his resume ' ) ! It also goes without saying that John Derek was his own cinematographer on the film , that the end credits are filled with useless ( and corny ) expressions of gratitude to the many people who lent a helping hand , and that GHOSTS CA N'T DO IT swept the board at the 1990 Razzie Awards !
I dug this out and watched it tonight . I honestly think it must be 20 years since the last time I saw it . I remember it being a seriously flawed film . I do n't remember it being THIS bad ! ! ! ! ! I am absolutely aghast that a project with this much potential should have been mistreated so reprehensibly . Who am I to blame for this ? The 2 guys who wrote ( and I use that word loosely ) the script ? The casting directors who so terribly miscast at least 3 major characters in the story ? ( Only 2 of them are among `` the amazing 5 '' . ) The director , who clearly refused to take it seriously , and kept shoving awful music on top of bad writing & bad acting everywhere ? ( I LIKED the theme song -- but it should never have been used all the way throughout the entire film ! ) Don Black , who should be ASHAMED at some of the lyrics he wrote for that music ? It figures that I should pull this out , less than a week after re-reading the comic-book adaptation . The first 15-20 minutes of the film more-or-less ( really , LESS ) parallel the first issue of the comic . As I watched it tonight , I kept wondering -- why was ALMOST every single detail changed ? Doc showing up , then using his wrist-watch remote-control to open the safe , and the sniper 's bullet missing him by 5 inches because the refractive glass , were just about the only things left the same . I mean , if you 're gon na do an `` adaptation '' , WHY in God 's name change EVERYTHING ? ? ? Once they leave Doc 's HQ , virtually NOTHING is as it was in the comic ( which , given Roy Thomas , I figure probably follows the book ) . I read somewhere they actually combined elements of 2 different novels into one movie . Again -- WHY ? I 've heard it was changed because they were n't able to secure the kind of budget they wanted . I look at the film , and think ... LACK OF MONEY in NO WAY explains what I saw on the screen ! ! You know , when people complain about Joel Schumacher , they should really take a look at this thing . The best thing I can say is , I think it would make a great double-feature with the 1966 BATMAN feature -- and probably a great triple-bill with that and the 1980 FLASH GORDON . All 3 films are `` silly '' . Maybe we can `` blame '' the 1966 film ( and TV series ) for this . Some fans have complained over the years that Adam West 's BATMAN ruined the image of comic-books in the minds of generations of non-comics fans . I think the same could be said for Hollywood . I 'm reminded of how many really , really BAD films based on `` classic '' characters have been made over the years , especially ( it seems to me ) in the late 70 's & early 80 's . Charlie Chan , Fu Manchu , Tarzan , Buck Rogers , Flash Gordon , The Lone Ranger -- all `` murdered '' by Hollywood types who think , `` OH , comic-books ! So you know it 's supposed to be STUPID ! '' More like they 're the `` stupid '' ones . What a waste of potential . Let me say some good things ... Despite the script and the directing , Ron Ely is GREAT . When I read a DOC SAVAGE story , I do n't think of the James Bama paintings , I think of Ely . Bill Lucking ( who later was a regular on THE A-TEAM ) is terrific . Eldon Quick ( who I 've seen somewhere else , but ca n't recall where ) is terrific . Paul Gleason -- who I absolutely HATED with a passion and a vengeance in THE BREAKFAST CLUB ( `` teachers '' like the one he played should be banned from ever teaching anywhere ) , may be the best of the `` amazing 5 '' in the film . Pamela Hensley -- though her part was almost unrecognizable from the original story -- is terrific . Before she let her hair down , I also realized she looked a HELL of a lot like `` Ardala Valmar '' from those awful John Calkins BUCK ROGERS strips I just read the other day . She 's got a big nose like Ardala -- only not quite as pronounced . The comics Ardala actually looked more like the 1936 movie Princess Aura -- or Cher . Or maybe Streisand . Take yer pick . ( Ardala actually got plastic surgery in the George Tuska strips -- after , she was stunning ! ) Paul Wexler , funny enough , I saw just last week in a GET SMART episode . I wonder if he was anything like the character he was supposed to be playing ? I do n't know , because that character sure was n't in the movie the film takes its title from .
This 1997 film-blanc classic tale of smoldering passion has achieved its well-deserved legendary status as one of the screen 's greatest sagas of a doomed and hopeless love . The pervasive , ongoing and progressive magnetism between Judge Reinhold and what's-her-name is sure to set many a viewer 's heart a-flutter with memories of one 's own first crush . The brilliant screenplay dangles this embryonic affair-to-be in front of the enraptured audience , sitting transfixed as the abstract , almost-expressionist cinematography deep-focuses on the just-under-the-surface desires that ebb and flow between the principals . You can cut the sexual tension with a dull tire iron . A tiny drop of perspiration on the end of a nose catches the bright sunshine , and leaves no doubt as to its significance . Scenes like this abound and bear watching again and again . As with `` Jane Eyre '' and `` Rebecca '' ( to which this masterpiece is so often compared ) , the closeups of the actors ' faces as they experience the slow dawning of the great love-that-is-not-to-be will haunt you forever . The now-classic RC soundtrack score , with its creative and unique use of solo synthesizer , emphasizes the emotion that drips throughout like a leaky crankcase . If I had any criticisms at all by mentioning what I consider a minor flaw ( and dared to risk the wrath of the millions of fans who hold this classic so dear to their hearts ) , I would say that the hallmark of `` Runaway Car '' - its sense of mounting sexual tension - is briefly broken by the highway scene , which now after repeated viewings seems just a bit overlong ( and probably even unnecessary ? ) to the eternal , bittersweet tale of Love Interrupted . Dare I advance what I perceive as the tiniest of flaws in this critically-acclaimed triumph of modern cinema ? 'Citizen Kane ' had its 'Rosebud ' . . . 'Runaway Car ' should have its catchword as well . Perhaps the film could have opened with an extreme closeup of Judge Reinhold saying something such as `` A car is an extension of its owner ! `` , and the rest of the storyline could then be dedicated to parsing every syllable , subtlety and nuance of that phrase . Had that plot line been done , this film could have topped `` Titanic '' at the Golden Globes that year , I 'm convinced . My one regret ? That I did n't read the novel first .
Amateurism best describes the film adaptation of the best-selling philosophical novel `` The Celestine Prophecy '' , which follows the spiritual awakening of an out of work teacher in a mysterious village in Peru . Home video quality actors present so-called characters spewing overwrought exposition and metaphysical hokum , while the film is propelled by the extremely heavy-handed direction of Armand Mastroianni . Even though there are visible attempts at measuring up to and interesting fans of stronger fare in the vain of ABC 's `` Lost '' or Dan Brown 's `` The Da Vinci Code '' , the filmmakers are hardly up to the task . This film reeks of ill-conceived mass consumption spiritual propaganda , and the results are so awful few can wade through this mess to spot a real point .
This movie was horrible . I swear they did n't even write a script they just kinda winged it through out the whole movie . Ice-T was annoying as hell . *SPOILERS Phht more like reasons not to watch it* They sit down and eat breakfast for 20 minutes . he coulda been long gone . The ground was hard it would of been close to impossible to to track him with out dogs . And when ICE-T is on that Hill and uses that Spaz-15 Assault SHOTGUN like its a sniper rifle ( and then cuts down a tree with eight shells ? ? It would take 1000 's of shells to cut down a tree that size . ) Shotguns and hand guns are considered to be inaccurate at 100yards . And they even saw the reflection . What reflected the light ? ? I did n't see a scope on that thing . Also when he got shot in the gut and kept going , that was retarded he would of bled to death right there . PlusThe ending where he stuffs a rock or a cigarette in the guys barrel . It would n't blow up and kill him . The bullet would still fire kill Ice T but mess up the barrel .
One of the other commenters mentioned that they almost walked out . If I had n't been with my wife , who wanted to stay , I would have left . It 's a shame , too , because I think it could have been a good movie . But this is easily one of the worst adapted screenplays I 've ever seen . It starts out nowhere and it goes nowhere ( I would say it goes nowhere fast , but it really goes nowhere slow ... painfully slow ) . From time to time there are hints that something interesting might happen , or that there is potentially some depth underneath one of the characters , but that 's all we get - hints . There is not a single payoff or revelation in the entire movie . Not that I need a slick plot to be entertained ... I love a good meandering character study as much as the next indie buff . But these characters add up to nothing . For the entire duration of the film you do n't care what happens to a single one of them . As a matter of fact , you almost start hoping they die , because at least a death might be more interesting than watching their inexplicable behavior , which is so strange and unpredictable that you 'd think it in itself would be compelling , but it 's not . Instead of quirky , noir-esquire characters acting in hard-boiled fashion , you simply recognize it immediately for what it is : a bunch of talented but miscast actors , brooding and raising their eyebrows while reading bizarre dialogue without a hint of relevant context . All this for two plodding , painfully slow hours . Awful .
This movie was horrible . I watched it three times , and not even the whole thing . It 's just impossible to watch , the story line sucks , it 's depressing , and utterly disgusting . I do n't write spoilers for anything , so if you want to know why it 's so disgusting , see it for yourself . The only good thing about this movie was John Savage , his dialogue at the beginning , and some funny parts in the movie . The little kid in this movie is annoying , and the whole situation is bullshit . I saw this movie at movie stores around America , so I assumed it would be a good movie . Jesus Christ , was I wrong ! ! ! ! The acting is all horrible , and the nudity itself is lame and nasty . Another thing is , Starr Andreef , the other main character , has n't been in such bad movies in the past , in fact , she was in some pretty good ones . Same with John Savage . This movie SUCKS !
I put this movie on in the hotel room to entertain my children the morning we were leaving to go home , because I had packed away all their toys . ( Toddlers do n't like to watch `` Regis and KAthie Lee '' or `` The View . '' ) My four year old found one scene funny , but told me the rest of it was `` too silly . '' This is a FOUR YEAR OLD , folks . Anyone over the age of , say , nine will want to kill their television rather than let this one play itself out . To say this movie is bad is like saying the Holocaust was a little mistake . There are no words for how ridiculous and utterly terrible this `` film '' truly is . The acting is bad , the plot is stupid , and the script is pathetically unfunny . Since this is supposed to be a comedy , the fact that you can not even laugh at the badness of the movie makes it even worse . Bronson `` Balki '' Pinchot is the worst with some weird fake accent ( Irish-Pakistani-Bronx-Cockney-Cajun as far as I could tell ) , but all the characters are awful . I have n't watched a real Laurel and Hardy film in ages , but I KNOW that they HAD to be way better than this . What is the point of ruining a classic comic duo with ... this ? Bottom line : derivative garbage . Avoid at all costs unless you have some freaky Bronson Pinchot fetish . 2/10
Frank Sinatra plays a no-goodnik ex-soldier and frustrated writer , hard-living and hard-drinking , who returns to his Midwestern hometown and reunites with his estranged brother ( Arthur Kennedy ) , now the town big-shot with a disinterested wife and headstrong daughter . Frank gets involved with gambler Dean Martin , uneducated flooze Shirley MacLaine , and has some run-ins with the law , but what he really wants to do is write and settle down with a good woman . Over-simplified drama verging on soap opera , with a role for MacLaine that is by turns overly 'colorful ' and embarrassingly sentimental ( her drunken belting on `` After You 've Gone '' is however the film 's highlight , and is expertly handled ) . Director Vincente Minnelli oversees it in straight-forward fashion , but he 's in surprisingly glum spirits and most of the big scenes are flat or dense . The picture looks incredibly handsome in widescreen , with a nice eye for detail and composition , but the story and these characters are stuck in the dregs . ** from ****
Notorious for more than a quarter century ( and often banned ) , it 's obscurity was its greatest asset it seems . Hey , it 's often better to be talked about , rather than actually seen when you ca n't back the `` legend '' up with substance . The film has played in Los Angeles a couple of times recently , and is available on home video , so that veil is slowly being lifted . While there is still plenty to offend the masses , it is more likely to bore them , than arouse much real passion . Except for a gratuitous and protracted XXX sex scene between a pair of horses ( `` Nature Documentary '' anyone ? ) , there follows nearly an hour of a dull arranged marriage melodrama . Once the sex and nudity begins , it is a nonstop sequence involving masturbation , a looooooooong flashback to an alleged 'beauty and the beast ' encounter , and a naked woman running around the mansion ( nobody , even her supposedly protective Aunt , seems to even think of putting some clothes on her ! ) . On video , I guess you can fast-forward thru the banality , but it 's not really worth the effort . The nudity does n't go beyond what is seen in something much more substantive such as Bertolucci 's THE DREAMERS . Try as one might to find some 'moral ' or 'symbolism ' in the carnality , I doubt it 's worthy of anyone 's effort . Unfortunately , for LA BETE , now that you can more easily see the film , the notoriety of something once 'forbidden ' has been lifted . And this beast has been tamed .
Quite honestly , The Omega Code is the worst movie I have seen in a very long time . During the first 30 minutes I sat stunned in my seat , trying to decide if I should demand a refund . But since I had n't paid to see it in the first place ( passes ) , I figured I might as well stay . And I did n't think it could possibly get any worse . It did . I will quickly run through the low points ( includes some spoilers ) : The horrible miscasting of Casper Van Dien as Gillen Lane , a motivational speaker with two PhDs . The characterization was inconsistent ; for example , Lane , despite his credentials , is a complete nitwit . Then there 's the lame-o depiction of the fulfillment of the Biblical prophecies ; we see a bunch of sensational news soundbites accompanied by ridiculous computer print outs of the translated Biblical Code . Also , terrible `` action '' sequences : Lane escapes from tough situations without explanation , and the one time Lane actually does seem to be in danger , it turns out to be a dream sequence ! That 's cute for grammar school writing assignments , but it 's an inexcusable plot device in a motion picture . The pacing was bad : after a long opener , the first third of the movie changes scenes every 90 seconds . Later , the pacing improves , but there is still far too much unnecessary jumping around . And as someone else mentioned , years pass yet no one ( not even Lane 's young daughter ) ages . That was disconcerting . There are a few good things , though . The quality of the film ( e.g . lack of graininess ) is high and very attractive . The outdoor shots were well done and the location shooting added a touch of realism . Also , there are a few moments in the last part of the film when Lane calls on God ( finally ) to help him - this proved to be quite exhilarating - even to me , someone who does not accept Jesus as a personal savior . But I liked this because it struck me as being the only genuine scene in the movie . Unfortunately , it was followed by major incomprehensibility . The characters , dialogue , direction and acting were ALL poorly done . Michael Ironside had nothing to do , and Michael York was just weird . I think the producers wanted to do too much ; if the plot had been tighter and more focused , and the characterization more fleshed out , the film would have been far better . In a nutshell , The Omega Code disappoints . Definitely do not pay to see this . I give it ** out of ten stars .
Ever since I started visiting this site , and voting for movies , I have never given any movie a rating of 1 . Even the disturbing `` Dance ! Workout with Barbie '' got a 2 . There is a reason for this . Any time I find myself watching what I think is a really bad movie , I have to stop and ask myself the following question : `` Is this movie really as bad as the horrific soul-sucking beast that is 'Theodore Rex ' ? '' And I 've never been able to answer `` yes '' . I would give anything within reason to know what crackhead said `` Hey ! Let 's remake 'Blade Runner ' with Barney in the Harrison Ford Role ! '' and decided it was a good idea to actually spend the time and money to commit it to film . Furthermore , I want to know what the hell kind of market they were going to sell this towards if it had n't gone strait to video . This is that rare monster : a movie that is way too violent for kids and way too insanely stupid for adults . I 'd ask `` what were they THINKING ? '' but in this case , it might actually be redundant . Anyhow , all you need to know is that you should only expose yourself to this monstrosity if you 're one of the five or six rabid fans of `` Howard the Duck '' , or if you are curious to see the most Evil Insane movie of all time , or you want to REALLY punish yourself .
This was one film i wanted to watch always when it released The promos were eye catching and Govinda in a negative role was a surprise But the film is n't that good It has lot of flaws The start is good and till the murder everything goes well but the film falls flat when the romance track starts between Govinda and Karisma and the songs that follow Then the twist about Govinda and Tabu being in love leaves more doubts and flaws and then How come Govinda turns into a rich criminal from a poor villager ? The last flashback too is prolonged and also the entire clash between Govinda-Karisma and Tabu N Chandra disappoints Music is okay , Bahot Khoobsurat stands out Govinda tries a negative role and does very well in it though he overdoes it too much at times Karisma is good but irritates at times with her cries Tabu is okay Nirmal Pandey still does n't know the difference between loud screaming and acting rest are okay
In the title I write that the story is ludicrous . below I 'll elaborate and tell you why it , in my humble opinion , ruins this movie . Gere and Danes are doing their jobs , and while it 's not their best work , it 's quite OK . The rest of the cast , though , is doing a really poor job . Mind you , this is not entirely the actors fault . The problem is that Gere and Danes are the only ones that have characters that have even the slightest room in the movie to really give any depth . All other characters have either too little room in the movie to create any depth , or the character is such a cliché that it does n't matter how hard the actors try . The director has a bit of a Se7en complex , but looking merely at the direction , I think he does an OK job . But the story . This is the kind of script that is bad in two ways . First of all it 's a bad movie script . The characters are shallow ( except for Gere 's and Danes ' characters ) , the villains are clichés and the actions of the characters is totally unbelievable . Besides this , the writers must have an agenda where they want to bring back our views and ethics a hundred years . It 's the kind of movie that are saying that some criminals are still criminals , regardless of the fact that they have paid the price the society has given them . It 's also the kind of movie that says , albeit only between the lines , that every form of sexual deviance should be punished without trial , judge or jury . And of course , according to the movie , everything that is not sex in the missionary position by a married couple is a sexual deviance . So , if you 're going to film school and need an example of a bad script , or if you 're writing scripts yourself and want an ego boost . See it . For everyone else , I recommend another movie .
A movie best summed up by the scene where a victim simulates disembowelment by pulling some poor animal 's intestines out from under her T-shirt . Too terrible for words .
When people ask me whats the worst movie I 've ever seen its this one . Its not even close to MST3k level riffing , or midnight viewing at a theatre , or even as Disney channel late night filler . The only time I 've ever wanted to jump off a ride at Disney World ( or Disney/MGM Studios in this case ) was to grab Dick Tracey 's jacket off the mannequin , rip it to shreds , and ram it down the tour guides throat saying `` Eat this ! Eat this unholy coat of darkness ! ! ! '' I 've never been so mad at a movie , not even `` Nutty Professor II : The Klumps '' or `` Flash Gordon '' . You want pretty colors and cinematography ? Ai n't here babe . Reviewers keep saying `` oh , but its too look like a comic book '' , well , to me , its the color of a Gordito after several weeks in the sun . About as enjoyable too . Beatty wanders around this landscape jumping around and talking to his watch , himself , and occasional at the other actors , hoping someone will tell him what time the sequel will begin shooting . To be fair , I have only seen this movie once , but my pain threshold is that of a man , not a God .
Randall `` Memphis '' Raines is a retired master car thief who is forced back into the `` game '' when his younger brother faces death for not filling an order for British crime boss Raymond Calitri . The job involves `` lifting '' 50 cars in 24 hours or Calitri will enact his punishment . So Raines quickly assembles a crew he can trust and sets about the task to hand . But the police are on to him and some of the cars on the list are not easy takes . It would seem a near impossible job to complete . It 's got quite a cast has Gone In 60 Seconds , Nicolas Cage , Angelina Jolie , Robert Duvall , Will Patton , Delroy Lindo , Vinnie Jones , Giovanni Ribisi , Christopher Ecclestone , Scott Caan & Timothy Olyphant . All of whom deserve better . Enough acting horsepower there to propel a Porsche 998 Turbo . Trouble is , is that this is very much a case of too many cars overstocking the car park , mucho characters , not enough zest . From the off we are in no doubt that this is a Bruckheimer/Simpson production , bonkers script laced with loud noises and lashings of cheese , scattergun editing , and directed with sledgehammer subtly by Dominic Sena . It 's essentially a big budget remake of H.B . Halicki 's 1974 indie movie of the same name , with the premise offering up the potential for an adrenalin fuelled car based movie . Potential that sadly is never realised . There 's one or two high impact moments , daft for sure , but enjoyable none the less . But if you pardon the pun , the film never gets out of first gear , it 's more content to labour with its ream of characters who mope about trying to make the boorish screenplay { Scott Rosenberg } work . Car fans will get something from it { the cars are ace on the eye } , as will fans of unintentional comedy movies { check out Ecclestone 's carpenter grief moment } . But no , it 's really rather poor all told . 4/10
Nell Shipman attempted a plot to lead up to a chase finale in 'Back to God 's Country ' of the previous year , and she failed miserably . This time , she does better , although it seems pointless . 'Something New ' hardly has a plot lying outside of the chase . There 's a brief premise , which sets up the hero ( co-author and Shipman 's boyfriend ) to have to save the girl ( played by Shipman ) , then it 's nothing but an exciting , implausible chase from there . Of course , it plays out like an hour-long advertisement for a Maxwell Sedan , but the entire movie is congruously ridiculous . It does n't seem that she learned much from the last-minute rescue films of D.W. Griffith or its parodies by Mack Sennett and other comedians , which she 's imitating . One point of interest is that Shipman writes and directs herself into the film as the writer of the film 's story , which has as its protagonist a writer ( Shipman again ) , although she does n't do much else clever or humorous with it , even though she attempts to . Again , others had pioneered the writer 's joke in the intertitles , like Anita Loos with 'Wild and Woolly ' or Frances Marion with 'A Girl 's Folly ' ( both 1917 ) . At least , Shipman gives the impression that she does n't take herself or the film seriously -- and neither do I . 'Something New , ' despite its claim , is hackneyed .
Tierney 's an authentic tough guy , but this movie misfire from normally competent RKO undercuts his impact at every turn . The script is about as plausible as OJ Simpson at a Ten Cmmandments dinner . Just count the times Tierney 's incredible car companions swallow one lame excuse after another for his evasive and violent acts . The old cliché about it `` only happening in the movies '' applies here in spades . Then there 's the guy playing the watchman , who appears to have wandered in from a boozy WC Fields comedy , ruining the menacing mood in the process . The static one-room sets do n't help either , and neither does director Feist 's obvious lack of feel for the material . Then add a final car chase missing both imagination and pay-off , and the results are pretty flat . In fact the movie only picks up in the station-house scenes where hard-bitten cops discover the hidden powers of innocent-looking gas station attendants . Too bad that Tieney 's career never really gelled . I gather that was due largely to being as big a tough guy off-screen as on and getting in one sleazy scrape after another . His ice-cold manner and clarity of emotion remind me at times of Lee Marvin at his tough-guy best . Anyway this project might have worked as a radio play , but as a movie with a promising noir title , it 's a disappointment .
I have just lost three hours of my life to this travesty , and I can honestly say I feel violated . I had read the reviews and heard the warnings , and I thought I was prepared for anything - at best I thought , a faithful ( if misguided ) attempt at an original adaptation ; at worst , a so-good-it's-bad `` Plan 9 '' for the new millennium . So when I managed to pick up a copy in Walmart while in Florida and brought it back to the UK , I joked to my friends `` Prepare for the worst movie ever made ! '' Oh , cruel Karma . There is absolutely NOTHING to recommend this film . The `` special '' effects look like the work of a first year design student using a Spectrum ZX81 . The acting is terrible , the accents are WORSE than terrible ( one artillery mans ' accent seems to take us on a tour of the British Isles , from Scotland to Wales via Northern Ireland ) , the dialogue is stilted , the editing is non-existent , the production values prove that no expense has been gone to . Words really can not describe how bad this movie is ; from the Union Flag flying from the horribly CGI 'd Thunderchild ( the Royal Navy flies the White Ensign , NOT the Union flag ) to the woodworm ridden acting , this is quite simply a crime against film making . When you consider some of the literally-zero-budget fan films that are available on the 'net ( the Star Wars short `` Troops '' for example ) , the whole `` we 're enthusiastic amateurs '' argument goes right out of the window . And if you believe an interview with Hines on the Pendragon website , this film had an 8 figure budget ! I can only assume that dodgy facial hair does not come cheap in the US . Maybe the problem is that Hines & co tried to make a film of the book , rather than turn the book into a film ( if that makes any sense ) . Characters and extras spout chunks of text verbatim without trying to convey the feelings behind the words . Ironically enough , the ONLY person who even came close to giving a decent performance was Darlene Sellers , the ex-soft porn actress . My advice ? Pray like crazy that Jeff Wayne does n't screw up , and go watch the Spielberg version . It may not be true to the text of the book , but I can say this ; As a lifelong HG Wells fan ( and Englishman as well ) Speilbergs film IS true to the Spirit of the book . Maybe customs were wrong to let me carry this monster into the country , but I will say this : Timothy Hines stole three hours of my life , and I want them back .
I would like to say that curiosity got the best of me . If only I saw a trailer , I 'd be able to tell you the whole plot of the movie ; I could have saved myself the most pointless one hour and forty minutes in my entire life , and about twenty dollars . This movie was a disaster waiting to happen , and it is an embarrassment to Hollywood . The movie displays a vivid ignorance of reality . For example , this kid 's remote control race car goes all over the neighborhood , and even enters this house . It 's even covered with clothes . Is it not rational to believe that a remote can no longer transmit a signal under those circumstances ? Hollywood obviously did not believe so . Common logic and any concept of electronics dictates the opposite ; I doubt the race car could even have reached the street , let alone a house across the street . Another unrealistic trait is the lack of intelligence the criminals possess . Why is it in all these movies , these criminals are rocket scientists until they encounter an eight-year old ? The kid is meant to be the most intelligent person in the movie instead of professional terrorists ? Please , there 's more reality in The Matrix . Also , the leader puts down his real pistol and `` accidentally '' picks up a plastic pistol ; apparently , he could not tell the difference . Even with a glove on , one should be able to do that . Just because they look the same does not mean anything ; there is other senses then sight . The traps are unrealistic as well ; if any one of them actually worked , the criminals would be dead . But , Hollywood intends for us to `` laugh '' at the `` funny '' results of the traps . I did not laugh ; I sighed and rolled my eyes . But , I recommend this movie to anyone who thinks they have seen a really bad movie ; the movie they saw will seem like Citizen Kane compared to this one . Otherwise , skip this one for the sake of your pride . Home Alone 3 also raises a question . We all know Alex D. Linz stars in the movie , but did he write it as well ?
How can a major German TV station broadcast a mess like this ? It 's amazing how the main actors avoid every acting talent - Even the well-known Gottfried John is acting very poor - especially in the double murder scene - how amateurish ... ... . ! The screen plan is very , very extended - perhaps to fill out 2 parts of the movie . Be careful not to fall asleep while watching ! The set is obviously very often a blue screen , f.g. the scenes on the ship with unreal sea in background ... ! In the German version the sound and the dubbing is very poor - probably reason : different languages of actors - but : other international productions do handle this much more professional . Advice : Do NOT watch - it 's a diabolic waste of time !
Now , I 've seen a lot of bad movies . I like bad movies . Especially bad action movies . I 've seen ( and enjoyed ) all of Jean-Claude Van Damme 's movies , including the one where he 's his own clone , both of the ones where he plays twins , and all three where he 's a cyborg . I actually own the one where he plays a fashion designer and has a fight in a truck full of durians . ( Hey , if nothing else , he 's got a great ass and you almost always get to see it . With DVD , you can even pause and zoom in ! ) That 's why you can trust me when I say that this movie is so bad , it makes Plan 9 look like Citizen Kane . Everything about Snake Eater is bad . The plot is bad . The script is bad . The sets are bad . The fights are bad . The stunts are bad . The FX are bad . The acting is spectacularly , earth-time-bendingly bad , very probably showcasing the worst performance of every so-called actor in the cast , including Lorenzo Lamas , and that 's really saying something . And I 'd be willing to bet everyone involved with this movie is lousy in bed , to boot . ESPECIALLY Lorenzo Lamas . It does manage to be unintentionally funny , so it 's not a total loss . However , I recommend that you watch this movie only if you are either a congenital idiot or very , very stoned . I was able to sit through it myself because I needed to watch something to distract me from rinsing cat urine out of my laundry . It did n't help much , but it was better than nothing . One point for Ron Palillo 's cameo as a gay arsonist .
This , the direct-to-video death rattle of the Tremors series , features sixty inspired seconds ( sawblade : you 'll know it when you see it ) and more tedium and filler than you can shake a stick at . Tremors 4 was obviously shot on a cripplingly low budget . That means they only had enough special effects mojo for three or four minutes of precious worm-on-human violence , tops . The lackluster , cliche-spouting cast and hackneyed writing ensure that the remaining hour and a half of the Tremors 4 experience feels at least fifteen thousand years long . Only hardcore Tremors fans will be able to sit through , much less enjoy this film . If you are n't among them- do n't bother .
Yes there are worse movies out there . Most of them made for fun , on a shoe string budget , or as a t.v . movie of the week , but even if this was the 'movie of the week ' it would rate no more than two stars . It is a poor movie about a serious subject featuring an abused woman who flees the king of the slime people in to the protective arms of the king of the wussy people . ( If this is an attempt to show that she does n't need a man to protect her than wuss man is superfluouse to the film and ought not to be in it at all ) . It has no suspense , no character development , and an heroine that could be outsmarted by a rotton onion . ( I think she flushes her wedding ring on a boat with a self contained tank rather than just dropping it overboard in the ocean ( where her body should be anyway ) and after the husband finds her , demonstrating that she is a moron , she still makes childish assumptions that lead to almost getting her killed . ) I am always amazed when I see the sort of generally high rating a movie like this gets and it makes me realize that Dr. Seuss still has a huge untapped market of people who would be challenged by his work . After I get done laughting at humanity I weep .
Spoilers . First off , nothing really happened in this movie , other than a woman bleeding inexplicably . Second , it was n't scary . Third , it had the worst soundtrack of any movie ever . Let me elaborate . The sound was edited by either Beavis or Butthead – I 'm not sure which , so let 's just go with Beavis . The movie gradually gets more and more quiet and the people mumble and mutter , forcing you to turn up the volume ( I watched this at home ) . Then Beavis blasts some really loud sounds with supposedly scary/shocking images , forcing you to quickly lower the volume again . This occurs many times until , mercifully , the movie ends . I can picture Beavis laughing vulgarly from behind the two-way mirror while watching the test group franticly reaching for the remote each time . If you have children and prefer to watch scary movies after they fall asleep , this one is a big mistake . But then it 's a big mistake anyway . Here 's a thought – if you 're going to make a horror movie , at least add a gratuitous beheading , a 19-year-old blond girl who screams at the top of her lungs just before she can take off her sweater , the shadow on the wall of someone being eaten alive just out of the camera range , a cat being thrown at the camera to scare the audience , some drifty weirdo with a maniacal laugh , or a monster who looks like a stage hand covered in aluminum foil ( a la TV 's Lost in Space ) . These people did n't even try to scare me . They just wanted to hurt my ears .
It was n't good . The characters were underdeveloped and the only personality were from the memories I had of the previous movie which contrasted with the 'new ' personalities ( or lack thereof ) . I seriously thought the opening scene was a nightmare by Ariel because of how absurd it was . It was serious . It just reminded me of all the annoying characters on the Disney channel-everyone is hyperactive and the story jumps from action to embarrassing scenes without any really connection . The most disappointing part was the horrible songs-not catchy , not amazing . In the original Ariel had an amazing and powerful voice and all the song are catchy and fun . You remember them and want to sing them . But the songs in this movie were n't creative in the least ; it 's as if they 're talking in a annoying sing-song voice-quite weakly , disappointing . I do n't have that want-to-sing-them feeling you normally get from a Disney movie . It 's as if not one wanted to do this movie , so they barely made an effort . . . this movie would needs a new story line , new catchy songs and more warmth and enthusiasm without the annoying `` look at me ! look at me ! I 'm so annoying ! '' mentality of this generation of Disney . : ' (
The point of Wolfe 's original novel -- indeed the point of the whole story -- is that things take place because of a carefully calculated sense of expediency . The goal is survival within a particular kind of life style . The novel is full of malice . The only relationship that rings emotionally true is that between Sherman and his daughter , Campbell , and that 's only touched upon . That aside , everyone is out for what he can get in the way of publicity , power , money or self aggrandizement . Wolfe was criticized for hitting every character and every social segment of New York City over the head . His response was a denial . After all , he lived in New York himself and belonged to a neighborhood improvement committee and other admirable organizations , exactly the qualifications one would want on his resume in order to deny that he disliked New Yorkers . ( Wolfe has a PhD in American Studies from Yale and is no dummy . ) Those supposed weaknesses are what made the novel memorable . Nobody was any good . And Sherman McCoy wound up broke , a professional protester for social justice . The movie throws all of that away and imposes a moral frame on the story that simply does n't fit . Wolfe did his homework . The novel was rooted in reality . Every event was not only possible but thoroughly believable . Wolfe might have made a great cultural anthropologist -- he knows how to get inside a system and record its details . Yes , any of us might have found ourselves , as Sherman and his mistress do , stuck in the South Bronx , threatened by a couple of black kids , and making a getaway after bumping into one of them . That scene is transferred neatly from print to celluloid . But after that scene the movie seems not to trust its audience and at times become frantic in its attempt to spell out its message , however nebulous the message is . Sherman might accidentally hit some kid and be arrested for it as he is in the novel , but he would not immediately upon his release from jail go back to his phenomenally expensive condo , take out a shotgun , and start shooting into the ceiling with it , as he does in the movee . In what 's supposed to be a funny scene , ceiling plaster falls all over the party guests and they scurry away , shrieking . It simply would not have happened . The movie has left the novel 's unspeakably detailed reality in the dust . Wolfe 's sensibility , the work he put into capturing the real , has been lost . What we get instead is a noisy , fantastic , and silly scene that does n't do anything except wake the audience up . Similar empty scenes follow , screaming out for Wolfe 's verisimilitude . The movie also fails because it thrusts a lot of sin and redemption into an entertaining story of moral nihilism . Here we see `` Don Juan in Hell '' at the opera . We get lectures on redemption from a poet with AIDs . We see a lot of guilt in Sherman . A black judge who preaches from the bench and gives one of those final speeches about how we all have to start behaving nicely again . A reporter who feels sorry for Sherman after turning him into a sacrificial lamb . And a happy ending in which Sherman gets off by breaking the law with an idiotic grin . The scene sits on the movie like a jester 's cap on a circus elephant 's head . The movie not only makes points that are already trite and unoriginal , it overstates them , as if the audience were incapable of absorbing any subtleties . It 's not the acting or the direction that 's poor . The film 's not bad in those respects . And the photography is pretty good too , including two rather spectacular shots -- the gargoyles of the Chrysler building and the landing of the Concorde . It 's the script that is thoroughly botched . The first half of the movie , roughly , is okay in conception and execution . It keeps some of the little details from the novel . Sherman and Judy 's dog is named Marshall . Who the hell would name a dog Marshall ? It loses its focus almost completely in the second half and on the whole is barely worth watching . Wolfe 's cynical redneck right-wingism may be offensive to a lot of people , but he 's got the cojones to lay his percepts out . Alas the writers and producers did not have the courage to pick them up and thus blew the chance to make a fascinating study of New Yorkers .
Gods , I have n't watched a movie this awful in a long while . Maybe not since 'The New Guy ' or various Freddie Prinze Jr. movies . Yes , it is that astoundingly awful . Mira Sorvino 's blank and wooden acting surely must 've been inspired by Freddie . The movie staging was awkward ( like a play , rather , and that feeling of confinement does NOT work well on film ) . The actors had no idea what they were doing , especially Sorvino . Her accent was awful and her sex appeal non-existent here so it was painful to see her 'seducing ' other characters and they 'falling ' for it . And what was with the occaisional shots of a live audience in lawn chairs ? Nonsensical ! I had to turn the dvd player off , it would have been self-inflicted pain to finish this film .
While I have never been a fan of the original Scooby-Doo ( due to its horrid production values ) , it appears like Shakespeare compared to this pile of crap brought to us by Hanna-Barbera ! Without a doubt , Scrappy-Doo is about the most annoying and awful character created for children ( and this includes the Teletubbies as well as Tommy the Tapeworm ) . Whose bright idea was it to create some sort of short mutant dog and enable it to speak and then saddle the Scooby-Doo characters with it ? ! Whoever it is deserves to die or watch this show ( I think death is preferable ) . The bottom line is that the little dog is simply unfunny , annoying and grates on the nerves -- and this is only in the BETTER episodes ! ! After many years , it would have been better to just end the franchise than create this mess ! I can see why in the live-action Scooby-Doo movie they made the villain Scrappy-Doo -- since practically everyone hates him !
The basic plot in this movie is n't bad . A lady makes it big and comes back to her alma mater to be adored . But , despite good acting by Robert Young and Eve Arden , the movie is a mess . The blame for this I place on either Joan Crawford or the director or both , as her performance is just awful . Instead of being a real person , she does a wonderful impersonation of a deer caught in the headlights . In other words , she stares off into space and has a `` golly I am SOOOO stunned '' expression . After just a few minutes it really became annoying for me . Now this is certainly not the only Crawford film I dislike for her performance , as she had done more than her share of overacting -- in films such as JOHNNY GUITAR or many of her later films , such as BERSERK ! My advice is to try a different Crawford film -- there certainly were better .
Maybe I 'm really getting old , but this one just missed me and the old Funny Bone completely . Surely there must be something powerful wrong with this Irishman ( that 's me , Schultz ! ) . Lordy , lordy what I would give to see the light ! Firstly , that Phil Silvers manic energy , wit and drive was very much a part of the comedic upbringing and overall education in life , if you will . Although it is possible that the series , first titled : `` YOU 'LL NEVER GET RICH '' ( 1955-59* ) could have gotten on the CBS TV Network with someone else in the title role of Sgt . Bilko , it is very hard to picture any other Actor/Comedian in the business wearing those Master Sergeant 's stripes . Such a strong identification is inescapable , though not the same sort of career-wrecking typecasting of a nightmare that it proved to be to some other guys , like Clayton More ( `` THE LONE RANGER '' ) , George Reeves ( `` THE ADVENTURES OF SUPERMAN '' ) and Charles Nelson Riley ( `` UNCLE CROC 'S BLOCK '' ) . One major stumbling block to successfully adapting and updating such a work from the 1950 's TV Screen to the 1990 's Movie-going public is our collective memory . Without being sure about what percentage of the crowd remembered the Bilko character from seeing the original run and early syndication revivals , and their numbers were surely considerable ; even a large segment of the young had seen Bilko reruns in recent times . It was obvious that the new film and the source were miles ; or even light years apart . So as not to be thought of as a totally square , old grouch please let 's consider some other points . Right here today , the 14th Day of November In The Year of Our Lord 2007 , let me swear and affirm under Oath that I have been a Steve Martin fan for nearly 30 years , Furthermore , I 've enjoyed the wit and talents of Bilko '96 Co-Stars Dan Akroyd and the Late Phil Hartman . After all , it was the talents of guys like this and so many others , Alumni of `` NBC ; s Saturday NIGHT '' and `` SECOND CITY TV '' that kept the last quarter of the 20th Century laughing . But a BILKO re-make ; it just did n't click . Perhaps if the film had been made as a Service Comedy ( always liked 'em ! ) but without the Bilko Show names and gave it some identity of it self it would be more highly regarded by crabby , old guys like me . So , we 've already had so many sitcom and cartoon series turned into movies lately , what 's next ? Howse about somebody doing Hal Roach 's World War II Army Comedy Series of Sergeants DOUBLEDAY & AMES and TV 's 1st Cartoon Series `` CRUSADER RABBIT '' ? Remember where you heard it first ! POODLE SCHNITZ !
Horrible , horrible TV show ! Why Comedy Central decided to repeat old episodes of this program is beyond me . It really sucks ! I am , of course , speaking about the seasons after the first two . The first two seasons were golden , and if I was exclusively talking about those seasons , this show would have gotten eight out of ten stars . None of the comedians appearing after the first two seasons who were not part of the original cast are any good . They were , and are , awful . The comedy is not funny at all . AT ALL ! ! ! The original cast was full of very talented comedians , like Artie Lange , Phil LaMarr , and Mary Schorr ( or whatever her name is ) , all of whom should have gotten better deals after they left MAD TV . This show is highly overrated , and less worthy of your channel surfing time than Saturday Night Live , another horrible show . Go out on Saturday night and have fun , and leave MAD TV to wither and die , as it deserves to .
I am sad that a period of history that is so fascinating and so rich in material for film can be made into a ho-hum event . Wm C Quantrill was barely shown in the film , probably the most intriquing figure of the period . Frank James was never mentioned , Cole Younger , ditto , and Bloody Bill Anderson , who would weep for his murdered sister every time he went into battle was completely absent in the script . Instead we were forced to watch fictitious characters that never developed into anyone we cared about . how sad . The costumes were wonderful however , as was the location shooting in Missouri . I hope Ang Lee will make another film from the period and try again , or some other film maker will look into the tremendous wealth of material to write a screen play on .
This crap is like watching paint dry . I 'm so disappointed because I was so eager to see it . There simply is no meaning to this film . If it were never made , no one would notice or care . It 's hyped up because of all the big names in it , but if `` nobody 's '' were in , nobody would give this film any love . Seriously , I was at the point where half-way through the film I would look at Vanessa Redgrave and think , `` Hurry up and die already ! '' This is like the `` Joy Luck Club '' without any of the friggin ' joy . It 's the `` Ocean 's 13 '' ( nothing but a big-named cast ) of mother-daughter movies and completely anti-climatic ... oh until it 's finally over . I 'm sure they 'll all be nominated for Oscars ... - 4 stars for cinematography and the ability to convince great actresses to commit to this junk .
A collection of Deleted scenes and alternative takes , edited together and with added voice-over to make it appear to take place after the events of the first . Pretty cool idea , but deleted scenes are left on the cutting room floor for a reason and this is further proof . As it 's just not as funny as `` Anchorman '' , and really let 's face it THAT film was n't exactly comedy gold either , so you get a 'movie ' worse than one that was moderately funny . In my eyes that STILL puts it one or two notches above `` Kicking and Screaming '' , or `` Bewitched '' . Chross your fingers that `` The Wedding Crashers '' is a return to old school form ( no pun intended ) My Grade : D
Utterly predictable silly show about a man who has killed his wife by mowing her down when driving and claimed he had blacked out . Why was he still driving a car ? Why did he still feel able to drive a car having killed his wife with one ? This question has not occurred to the writers . The story then witters on about a psychologist and her failing marriage which is tied into the failing marriage of wife-killing blackout driver . An omniscient mother and one dimensional child are thrown in for good measure , and the whole builds up to a predictable denouement and crashing finale . Are police psychologists so easily taken in ? Deadful writing that the actors do their best with , but they are doomed to failure . This is on a par with a Harlequin Romance . Do n't waste your time watching this one unless that 's what you are aiming for .
Mr. Mike was probably the most misanthropic comedian of all time , so I was interested to see what he 'd do with total creative control over a movie . Sadly , it is unwatchable , though not because the jokes are n't funny -- some ( I wo n't say most ) of them are , and in fact Mr. Mike did a good job translating his mentally unbalanced screeds into visual gags . The trouble is that the technical quality ( sets , lighting , sound , editing , you name it ) is so God-awful , the movie is intolerable . Some outfit called `` PKO Productions '' gets the producing credit , but it does n't look produced at all ; it looks more like Mike stole one of the cameras from the SNL set and made the whole thing in an afternoon . I realize Mike 's goal was to torture the audience , but even that deserves some basic standards , such as the ability to actually see , hear or comprehend whatever it is that 's supposed to be shocking . Still , the DVD is n't a total waste : it includes a eulogy for O'Donoghue by Bill Murray and three `` Mr. Mike 's Least Loved Bedtime Stories '' from SNL . Plus , the `` cat swimming '' section of the movie is a great scene to be caught watching if you want to freak someone out . 3/10
Seeing as the world snooker championship final finished in a premature and disappointing manner with Ronnie O ` Sullivan defeating Greame Dott by 18 frames to 8 BBC 2 found a gap in their schedule and so decided to broadcast A WALK ON THE MOON a movie I had absolutely no knowledge off I missed a few seconds of the title credits so had no idea Viggo Mortensen starred in it and thought possibly it might be a cheap TVM , certainly the opening with the mawkish Pearl and Marty taking their kids to a Summer camp has that sort of made for TV feel though the brightly lit ( Too brightly lit ) cinematography seemed to suggest this was a cinematic film and it wasn ` t until the appearence of Viggo Mortensen as hippy guy Walker that I realised this was a cinema release , after all someone of Mortensen ` s stature wouldn ` t star in a TVM , I mean that ` s like a legend like Robert DeNiro appearing in a straight to video film . Wait a minute , didn ` t Bob ... . ? Some people on this site have mentioned that Pearl and Marty are an unconvincing on-screen couple and I agree . I can understand why Pearl would be attracted to exciting hippy guy but have no idea why Walker would be attracted to plain house wife Pearl . The sixties was before my time but surely if you ` ve got the choice between hippy chicks and bored house wives it ` s not really a choice at all . Mind you a lot of people took LSD in those days so I guess that explains it I feel the major problem of A WALK ON THE MOON comes down to the fact it ` s a romantic drama at heart ( Just like you ` d expect in a TVM ) with several cloying coming of age scenes so why include a fairly explicit sex scene ? It jars with the rest of the movie and is possibly off putting to the menopuasal women who were 20 something in 1969 . I say possibly because the movie also seems to aim at a teeenage market with the coming of age scenes and those teenagers will probably be bored with the historical and social context of man walking on the moon and Woodstock . In other words A WALK ON THE MOON tries to attract many types of audience but will probably appeal to none of them
We 've been served - a terrible film . Okay , I 'll admit that since I 'm white and have had no practical experience in the `` competitive world of step-dancing , '' I might not exactly be an authority on this type of film . On the other hand , I do know a bad motion picture when I see it . And , boy , have I just seen it . Filmed in Low-Budget-Vision and directed by Ian Iqubal Rashid , ( `` A Touch of Pink '' ) , `` How She Move '' tells the tale of how important it is to follow one 's dreams - even if those dreams include bopping around to loud , irritating hip-hop music and speaking dialogue the average person would not understand if he or she had an international translator . I 'll try to give a small synopsis of the `` plot . '' First of all there are two actors that look like LL Cool J who work in an auto shop in Toronto ( the Mecca of racial diversity ) , but still have time to practice dancing for eight hours a day . There are a few other guys in this `` crew , '' including a token white dude and a guy that looks like Denzel Washington in `` Malcolm X . '' There are also two women in the movie - one resembles Serena Williams and the other looks like Geraldine from the old `` Flip Wilson Show . '' One of these ladies was kicked out of a private college because her parents spent all of her tuition on a drug-addicted sibling . The other girl , a member of Salt N Pepa , no doubt , is just plain no good . There 's another guy who looks like Eddie Murphy 's Buckwheat , while still another actor who 's a Huggy Bear knock-off . These guys are rival step dancers . Evidently , this activity is very hard-core in the 'hood , and they are all practicing for the big `` Step Monster '' jam in Detroit . Since I was unable to understand 90 percent of the dialogue ( perhaps some subtitles would have been useful , as in a Bergman film or that one music video by Snow ) , it 's hard to explain what happens , other than there 's a lot of arguing , the Serena Williams girl ( who never smiles , by the way ) becomes a freelance stepper ( moving from group to group ) , there 's some step-dancing and a lot of irritating hip-hop music . It 's a typical rags-to-riches story ; sort of like `` Rocky '' with a really bad soundtrack , `` Rudy '' with annoying rap music in the background , `` Cry Freedom '' without the laughs . But why does a film - which could have made a big impact on black audiences - have to contain drug addiction , bad parents and a title that sounds like a first-grader saying the phrase , `` How she moves '' ? I was `` moved '' by this movie , however . Moved to leave the theater as quickly as possible .
Although I use this site quite frequently to see how other people rated what I think are challenging or just plain enjoyable films , after watching this `` movie '' on Film Four last night I felt compelled to write something down , even if it just helps cleanse me once again . The film was possibly the shallowest experience I 've ever had - the main characters played by Danny Dyer ( 23 ? You sure ? ) and Gillian Anderson ( who will always be Scully as Leonard Nimoy will always be Spock ) had no real substance about them - I 'm not sure if the first half-hour of the film did n't make the final cut but surely in a revenge movie you would like some empathy with the victims ... here I could n't care less . In fact , the only character I did seem to care about was the dog , with the stag coming a close second . And both animals out-acted Dire ( sic ) and Scully , who were quite frankly terrible . I guess though you 're only as good as the script you are given , and I 'd like to warmly thank the writers , the producers , the director and all of the cast for wasting 90 minutes of my life and some perfectly good electricity .
Now look , I wo n't lie to you , but I only got this movie for $ 3.99 from a friend because it had Danni Filth , the lead singer of the ever popular death metal band `` Cradle Of Filth '' in it . I expected of course violence and gore at its finest , as that is what Mr Filth can be portrayed as , amongst a plot line . But dear god , I was oh so wrong . This movie seriously bites , big time . Being a low budget film ( haha , wait , make that ZERO BUDGET ) , this obviously lacks the beautiful Howard Stern orchestra musical scores and the Spielberg special effects . Nope , it 's all one camera , bad angles , and bad blood scenes . Take for example when our star and violent fiend , Mr Filth , violently kills a mugger . A grab at the throat , and blood spits out , but oh my , it looks like there 's a juice packet filled with fake blood in the man 's shirt . To you Cradle Of Filth fans : You 'll hear two songs throughout the movie , but with the camera angles and shoddy filming , they drag the overall pleasure of the song DOWN . My final comment : Steer well away from it . It 's blood , gore , breasts , and hey , even a shoddy story to go with it . So if you like appalling violence , near no voices ( yes , there 's hardly any words in this movie ) , then by all means , buy it . But if shoddy movies is n't your thing , then avoid it . Do n't waste your money .
This is the first of `` The Complete Dramatic Works of William Shakespeare '' BBC series I 've seen , and if all of them are like this , I might watch no more . Being practically the full text of the play is everything this `` Romeo & Juliet '' has going for it , lacking in all other departments . Alvin Rakoff reveals himself as a dreadful director , both in the technical and artistic aspects . In the former , because he commits mistakes that even a first grade film student would wisely avoid . Take in consideration , for example , the badly edited first shot of Abraham and Balthasar in the opening scene , or the Nurse 's entering of Friar Lawrence 's cell , asking where 's Romeo with him being so very in front of her that she 'd clearly see him even if she was blind . And , in the latter , because every single one of the performers is misdirected , even if some of them are good actors . Rebecca Saire looks exactly the way I 've always imagined Juliet to look like , and she does n't seem to be a bad actress for a teenager , but her performance totally lacks passion of any kind . Patrick Ryecart as Romeo is even worse , being not only as dull as Juliet , but also way too old and not even good-looking , coming across as a combination of Malcolm McDowell and the Chucky doll . Putting them together makes impossible to think they feel anything for each other , let alone being the main players of the greatest love story ever written . Alan Rickman , in his screen debut , plays Tybalt like if he was Darth Vader , which is a huge mistake that takes away the complexity that Shakespeare intended , no character being a hero or a villain but all flawed human beings . This Tybalt is so mean-looking that we do n't believe the characters ' pity after his demise . As for Paris , I kept thinking of `` Prince Valium '' from Spaceballs . Only Celia Johnson manages to do the character of the Nurse some justice . At 168 minutes , this production is unable to make us empathize with the characters , because the characters do n't empathize with each other and never seen to believe their own roles . The best screen version is still Franco Zeffirelli 's . But , to be fair , this BBC one is n't nearly as bad as abominations like George Cukor 's flamboyant geriatric version , or the crime against Humanity that is Baz Luhrmann 's feature-length MTV video . 4/10 .
Ah , the sex-and-gore movie . It 's too bad they do n't make these anymore ( unless you live in Japan ) . But if they all turned out like this , that is not a bad thing . The movie basically consists of the two lovely vampires picking up `` johns '' along a country road , taking them home to their castle , having crazy sex with them , and then eating them ( except the first victim , who they keep around for no particular reason ) . Things are complicated when a woman camping with her husband becomes too curious about these mysterious women she keeps seeing . It gets real ugly from here . By the end , the two vamps are in such a bloodlust that they 're eating everything in sight , and manage to let their captive victim escape . Oops , so much for that secret existence . The fact that the two vampyres do n't mind taking their clothes off and fooling around with each other is the only thing this movie has going for it . Otherwise , it 's a bloody , confusing mess ( why is their tomb so far away from their castle ? ) , watchable only for the scant few minutes of vampyre playtime . The only thing I got out of this movie was these two valuable bits of advice : shooting lesbians will not kill them ; it will only turn them into vampires , and , do n't pick up hookers along a country road ; they are probably vampires . Other than that , it really was n't worth my time .
Having just recently re-viewed `` Lipstick '' for the first time in a few decades , I backed it with `` Descent '' even though I have heard more negative comments than good from other film friends with tastes as varied as mine . It 's interesting to contrast how the unique niche of the Rape Revenge movie has evolved in the past 32 years , from the full-on gore of `` I Spit On Your Grave , '' to the tawdry sensationalism of `` Lipstick , '' to the tasteful handling of the issue in `` The Accused . '' But `` Descent , '' though making some important points , never really offers us anything truly new in terms of revelatory meaning . No , `` Descent '' is so poorly made in terms of picture and sound quality that it detracts from any significant message it could hope to make -- - a message that , when examined closely , is n't that groundbreaking . I pretty much knew the plot going in . What I wanted to see *was* the `` descent '' or degeneration of Dawson 's character . Being a big fan of Rosario 's , I was anxious to see the layers being stripped away and her psyche being slowly twisted ... you know , the kind of portrayal DeNiro brings to `` Taxi Driver . '' Unfortunately , the script and the director/writer 's choices do n't provide any sort of believable transition . The biggest point of failure is the second act . It became obvious what the filmmaker 's intentions were for this segment of club-hopping , drug use , and obsession with big black stallion Adrian ( every white boy 's nightmare , natch ) from a Q & A on the DVD , but this excursion into Dawson 's character is never believably rendered . We do n't know exactly what the hell she 's doing half the time , what she 's after , or why she 's doing it . The poor quality of the audio/video again do n't help , but the sequence is just too damn long and pointless . It destroys any momentum and investment in the lead character set up during the otherwise exceptionally well-done first act . By the time we get to the finale , our interest has already waned . One point of success that Dawson does point out in the Q & A is that by the end `` revenge '' scene we are pumped for retribution , then realize just how drawn-out and ugly the reality is . While that 's certainly valid , it does n't make the scene any more intriguing . If you have the DVD , check out the deleted `` classroom '' scene . This is an excellent 8 minute plus outtake that crackles with energy and provocation ( though all verbal ) and really DOES show Dawson 's slow crack-up materializing as she delightfully vivisects poor Francie Swift 's prissy , condescending dorm counselor . If more expository scenes like this had been added and more of the middle third cut down , we might have an interesting psychological study of the impact of senseless acts of violence . As the film stands in the final cut , though , all we get is what we 've seen before , only in a more graphic rendering . So what ?
Well , what can you say about sitcoms . There often quite lame , morale dedicative , and just plain . So is this show ! It got a boring cast , although A.Bynes is okej in her perky way , the rest is just stereotypical crap ... .as always . We have all seen it before , and will probably see it all over again when this show is cancelled . Cause , lets face it , its a mediocre and self righteous show . As the most sitcoms are ... . Well , in short . If you wan na see some good entertainment , you can rather take a twenty minute pause in front of the mirror . Do some faces and move on ... . Its more entertaining than this show !
I got the DVD from the library in the expectation of getting a good idea of how things go on in the background at a major opera production . I have to say , I was very disappointed . The subject had so much potential . The sets in a Wagnerian production must , of necessity , be elaborate and impressive and the story behind their creation and use could have been an excellent educational experience . Instead , what we get it a hodgepodge of clips of people moving around big items of scenery , vaguely help together with a commentary which failed to hold my attention . I found myself listening primarily to the background clips of music from operas . I was impressed by the sheer enormity of the effort required to put on such a production - that did come across fairly well and next time I am at the opera I am sure I will remember that part if this video - but was left feeling somewhat cheated by the lack of detailed commentary and explanation .
Sundown - featuring the weakest , dorkiest vampires ever seen , accompanied by one of the most unfitting , pretentious scores ever written - and with Shane the vampire , who 's every move and spoken word was so ridiculous that I burst out laughing half the times and rolled my eyes the rest . The vampires do n't seem to have any special powers at all - except for strength ( sometimes ) , being able to switch off a lamp with their mind ( one time ) and ... that 's it , really . Ever imagine count Dracula worriedly recoiling from a fight 'cause he ran out of bullets ? Neither did I . Practically any other movie-Dracula would eat this one for breakfast , skin his followers and use their bones as toothpicks . The main plot of the movie is that a human family of four gets caught up in a vampire gang fight - Dracula 's vs. some old geezer 's . It could have been some good old B-flick fun , but the overly dramatic music was clearly written by someone who took this movie a bit too seriously , and ends up ruining the remaining part of the movie not already ruined by clay bats , mediocre acting and the laughable screenplay . In the end it 's just too silly to be funny . Sure , it has some amusing moments , but they 're few , and far apart .
First of all , this movie is n't a complete disaster . If you had never heard of the real story of Gram Parsons then it might seem a reasonably entertaining diversion . Johnny Knoxville ca n't really be criticised for his performance as Phil Kaufman - he 's pretty good at looking laid-back and down to earth and you can sort of root for his long-suffering everyman . Michael Shannon is due credit for pretty much the same reasons , except he 's a hippy stoner . There are some good individual comedic scenes - the hippy-hearse crashing into the airport hanger door stands out . But that 's where the good things end , and we begin to see the aspects that make this movie so truly disappointing . The character of Robert Forster as Gram 's actual father is an invention so disgraceful as to cast a taint over the entire film . We all know his real father committed suicide when he was young - something that could surely be compared to Gram 's life on the edge by a better film-maker . Having Forster as his supposed real father , and not his step-father would be bad enough , if not for the well known difficulties Gram had with the man who actually flew to collect his body . It has been suggested that his step father had admitted to providing Gram 's mother with alcohol as she lay dying and that this enraged Gram when he later found out about it . Also the controversy over where Gram 's body was buried would surely be reason enough not to invent a benevolent made-up father who actually catches up to the duo and their hearse , but then allows them to go ahead with the burning . Whatever the truth about the man who Gram got the name Parsons from , he certainly bore no resemblance to Forster 's character here , and it is hard to see why this role was written . Then there 's the addition of Christina Applegate as a greedy chick ( yet very pretty of course ) who wants Gram 's body back so that she can begin to cash in on his estate . Her character , and her acting are non-existent and one wonders why the director did n't just go the whole hog and include a lesbo scene between her and the chick who plays Kaufman 's girlfriend ( it would n't have lowered the tone a whole lot more ) . When you think of the ingredients that could have been used in a good movie about Parsons , the shortcomings of this film are easily apparent . Country music being changed by a young , polite , southern gentleman - who was also long haired , drug loving , popular with the ladies and ultimately self destructive . Real events like the hanger door crash and the painted hearse and friends like Keith Richards . Instead of these things we have to concentrate wholly on Kaufman 's input into Gram 's life . Kaufman is obviously still lapping up the cult status he received for what he did ( he certainly is a little cult ) . From interviews it is obvious that he 's delighted with the attention . Remember this is the man who made a remark about the genitalia of the naked corpse of Gram Parsons as he was preparing to set it alight . What he did was not an act of great loyalty , but a doped up alcoholic escapade . Looking at Knoxville and the director in interviews , a few things become clear also . It 's obvious that they have no real grasp of the story of Gram 's life , nor do they wish to have . They want a hit movie about an event that is infamous and crazy . It was an amazing life with a strange end . That the end is the only thing covered by this movie shows how limited an understanding of Gram Parsons the makers had .
You know the story..Pretty kids alone in the woods , when BAM ! something starts cutting them up . Well this crap is no different.A bunch of kids return to a cabin where the male leads twin brother disappeared for years before.Suddenly an `` UNKOWN CREATURE '' stars cutting them up , and their only help is a doctor/biker . To say this film was bad is an understatement , it 's smut ! The acting was horrible . The creature looked very cheesy . And as all films do these days they try to get you with a twist ending , which they do not ! There is one bright spot to this film- LOST star Maggie Grace as the female lead .
A spoiler . What three words can guarantee you a terrible film ? Cheap Canadian Production . THE BRAIN fits those words perfectly . Terrible script , idiotic acting and hilarious special effects make this a must for every BAD movie fan . The horror is hilarious . The post production team looks like it gave up . What makes THE BRAIN admirable is in the second half , it actually tries to be good ! Can a bit of ingenuity and consistency save what is already a joke ? It 's around Christmas time . A mother and daughter are murdered by one of the funniest looking villains ever . The day later , a rebel teen gets into enough trouble that he is sent for a psychiatric analysis . If a cop 's head is chopped off and a stranger with blood on him and a bloody axe told you some kids did it , who would you believe ? What begins as funny turns dull and tiring toward the end when THE BRAIN tries to be serious . A child can not be frightened by the scary moments . THE BRAIN is too funny a concept to try and be gritty . The Psychological Research Institute is larger than major manufacturing plants ! Our ugly villain and its cohorts get credit for pulling some of the worst acting I have seen . Viewer discretion advised heavily .
1 out of 10 . This is the kind of movie that you cant believe you just wasted 2 hours of your life as you see the credits role . I honestly think I could make a better Vampire movie ... . and I know nothing . The only thing that does not just suck ( harder than a Vampire ) is Jason Scott Lee ... . his character is at least a little bit cool , has some mystery , and kicks a little butt .
I remember watching this movie several times as a very young kid , and there were parts of it ( many in fact ) that I did not understand . I think I have seen it once as an adult , and I then understood those parts . The only problem with viewing it as an adult was that it was not entertaining to me at all . So what kind of movie is this ? Is it a `` kids movie '' ? Not hardly . It contains language and subject matter not suitable for kids . Is it a hyperbole of what every parent feels like they are going through with their own children ? Maybe , but then why would n't it focus more on John Ritter 's character instead of Junior ? When a film has a 7-year-old as its main character , in order to do well with it 's audience , it should be a movie for the seven and under crowd , otherwise people older than that will have no way to relate ( even 8-year-olds would n't want to see a movie about a kid who is whole year younger than them ) . I 'm pretty sure this film did not do well in the box office , and the reason has to be because it was unable to find a niche in the market .
A famous show master enters the elevator with his girlfriend . Suddenly , she kills him and runs away while an old lady gets a heart attack . The name of the female assassin is Sawa . She is still going to school and works for an vicious criminal , Akai , who is sleeping with her . One day Sawa finds out he killed her parents.. -- -- -- - Even the biggest anime fans will have to admit that this vicious action thriller is an disappointing gore fest . `` Kite '' has style , but it is still trash . The weird plot about a teenage girl that kills people as an assassin tried to be scary and touching at the same time , only causing the story to fall flat on it 's face . One of the highlights is an action sequence in which the good/bad heroine Sawa is falling together with a bodyguard from a building , yet the dramatic structure is n't nearly as good orchestrated and the director Yasoumi Umetsu 's weird and grotesque animation of the character 's faces is awful . Not only that , the intercourse sequences are just simply creepy . Grade : 3/10
With all due disrespect for this George Stevens Sr. `` epic '' of miscastings and misreadings , I can only wonder that the James Dean `` legend '' could survive this outing , I submit that then-studio obeisances to bankable box office `` giants '' came a cropper of its own 'gigantismoses ' . Nor were Rock and Liz that much better off . Let us just say that the televised `` Dallas '' was the authentic `` heir , '' even if contemp ( tuous ) latterday `` Texans '' like Lay and DELay , not to mention our putative `` president '' of these here Yewbenighted States of Amurrika , perform a one-upsmanship of dastardly global dimensions . I never read Edna Ferber 's original , but will lay odds it is head and shoulders superior to what got on screen herein . And all those well-paid , I would imagine , `` supporting '' actors of note and celebrity notwithstanding , `` Giant '' is , to me at least , a midget of scant merit , never mind the promo campaigns .
I did n't think it could be done , but something has come along and replaced Open House- a low budget horror about someone killing over the high price of real estate- as the worst film I 've ever seen in my short but otherwise sweet life . It was touted as the best film in Montreal 's most recent film festival , which leads me to believe that every other entry must consist of blank-wall shots accompanied by people reading gloomy poetry . Watching this movie was like a little slice of Hell . It 's from Austria , and it attempts to stumble along in the footsteps of Short Cuts and Blue Velvet- scenes about various characters living in a suburban area with a dark underbelly . There 's the fat dog owner and his fat maid wife who stripteases for him , the skinny divorcee whose wife still lives with him in a house that includes the untouched room of his dead child , the über-annoying woman hitchhiker who recites top ten lists ... The list goes on . Forever . Much like the two hours plus I spent in that theatre . Yes , the characters interact , but not in a clever or interesting or even relevant way . I could n't say if they were any good as actors , as , according to the subtitles , they were given lines that were the Austrian equivalent of `` You are so lame ! '' They certainly did n't have to learn many , as each repeated his or her same lines at least three times in a scene . This is no Gummo , or any of the aforementioned movies . There is no art to discover , and nothing to dwell on afterwards except maybe whether or not you should change your `` never walk out during a movie '' policy ( which quite a few older couples did during a random orgy scene- and if that sounds appetizing , it 's not , unless you 're one of few who does n't find the idea of your parents having sex- and with a few local middle-aged couples , to boot- revolting ) . This movie was offensive to me . Not the flabby nudity , not the cringe-inducing soundtrack , not the shockless scenes involving guns . I was offended that someone actually spent money to make this when there are capable writers and filmmakers out there looking for funding . I was offended that someone from out of town might have gone to see Dog Days and come out wondering if that was the best us Montrealers could find . Most of all , I was offended that , somehow , the people involved with the festival duped everyone into believing that the emperor had a gorgeous and mesmerising new outfit when it was painfully clear that he was as naked as the fat maid wife doing a striptease .
Is nothing else on TV ? Are you really bored ? Well , then watch Phat Beach . However , do n't rent it and definitely DO NOT buy it . That would be a big mistake . I watched this on TV and found myself laughing at certain points . I did not laugh long and I did not laugh hard . However , there were subtle jokes and comments I laughed at . If you are looking for an extremely funny `` hood '' movie then watch Friday . If you are looking for a powerful emotional movie ( something that this movie tries at..kind of ) watch something like hoop dreams or Jason 's Lyric . If you are lookin for some good black `` booty '' go watch a Dominique Simone porn flick , because the nudity in this movie is nearly non-existent . However , if you have nothing better to do and this is on cable , go ahead and watch it . You will be slightly amused . ***3 out of 10***
What a sad sight these TV stalwarts make , running out the clock on their careers stumbling about a little rusting hulk of a ship - boat might be more appropriate . The whole production feels cheap and shabby , and it 's not helped by a `` big name '' star who is barely capable of spitting out the few lines that he 's given in a credible fashion . At no time do the supporting cast rise above the material ; they 're clearly watching the clock here . Bang out the scenes , get the pay cheque , go home , and try to forget all about it . It 's not particularly badly scripted or filmed ; there are no real clangers , it 's just utterly anodyne , and shot in a very limited number of cramped sets with a small cast of extras . The pacing is a little bizarre ; an embarrassingly tentative romantic sub-plot is only begun after the main action starts , which makes it feel irrelevant . Maiden Voyage scores a couple of points for being competently scored , and for being a fun game of `` spot the Kiwi bit parters '' ; most of the cast are graduates of Shortland Street or Xena : Warrior Princess . The saddest thing about this production is that this film probably constitutes their big break .
I feel like I 've just watched a snuff film ... .a beautifully acted , taut , engrossing and horrible thing ! A two hour litany of perversion in the most basic and all inclusive sense of the word , sexual violence and torture , rape , decapitation , incest , corruption , live burial , and abuse , abuse , abuse . No redemption whatsoever . And I WAS entertained . I could n't stop watching . What does this say about me , about the people who make and act in this sort of thing , and a world that has become so desensitized that eventually real snuff films will be the norm . And I 'm neither puritanical nor humorless , I do n't try to hide from the existence of darkness , and I definitely have not led a sheltered life , but I am ashamed of myself . AND I 'm sorry to see my British cousins dragging the subject-matter sewers the way my own tribe does . It does n't have to be cozy , but does it have to wallow in vicarious sadism ?
A story of amazing disinterest kills `` The Psychic '' over and over again . The characters and plot are completely uninteresting ( as is Fulci 's mad camera work , which is usually a redeeming factor in his films ) , and any grasp of suspense is nowhere to be found . It 's padded out to an insufferable degree -- by the end , you wo n't be clamoring with excitement but stricken with boredom ( and , like me , maybe an uncontrollable urge to fall asleep ) . Jennifer O'Neill 's performance deserves occupancy in a better movie . Fulci gorehounds beware -- there 's just not much going on in `` The Psychic . '' 3/10
I was very disappointed by this movie . I thought that `` Scary Movie '' although not a great movie was very good and funny . `` Scary Movie 2 '' on the other hand was boring , not funny , and at times plain stupid . The Exorcist/Amityville spoof was probably the best part of the movie . James Woods was great . Now , I 'll admit that I am at a disadvantage since I have not seen a few of the movies that this parodies unlike the first , where I had basically seen them all . But bad comedy is still bad comedy . Something that really hurt this movie was the timing , which ruined some of what might have been good jokes . Scenes and jokes drag out way to long . Also , the same jokes keep getting repeated again and again . For example , the talking bird . Ok it was funny the first and maybe even the second time . But it kept getting repeated to the point of annoying . The routine between the wheelchair guy and Hanson ( Chris Elliott ) was amusing at first but it kept getting repeated and ended up stupid and even tasteless . Some jokes even got repeated from the first movie . For example , the 'creaming ' I guess you would call it of Cindy ( Anna Faris ) was funny in `` Scary Movie '' because Cindy had been holding out on giving her boyfriend sex for so long , that essentially he had blue balls from hell and it was funny when he 'creamed ' her . But this time around it was out of place and not funny . The bathroom and sexual humor in general was more amusing and well timed the first time around . The scat humor was excessive though and rather unneccessary in the second film . Tori Spelling was annoying and really had no place in this movie . But I did enjoy Shorty ( Marlon Wayans ) who in my opinion was the funniest character in the first film . The scene with him and the pot plant was one of my favorites from the second film . Do n't get me wrong , I love the Wayans family and their humor . That is why this film is so disappointing . . . they have a lot more comic ability than endless scat jokes .
After viewing the film , I was truly shocked to see such a high rating on IMDb . 'The Fantastic Mr. Fox ' is an adaption of a beloved children 's classic , portraying the story of the smooth , slick protagonist Mr. Fox ( or 'Foxy ' ) as he attempts one 'last ' heist to steal from the dreaded Boggins , Bunce and Bean . That 's right , one short , one fat , one lean , or however it goes . I do n't quite know where to start with my criticism . Well , I 'm in my late teens and was never a fan of Roald Dahl , but I like his material well enough , having read a few of his books as a child and seen Matilda and Charlie and the Chocolate Factory over and over again . This film , however , struggles for an audience . Is it aimed at children ? Adults ? I 'm still unsure ! Many of the 'jokes ' would bore a child , especially as Mr. Fox visits a lawyer for example , or complains about being poor . Also , an audience of ( I 'm assuming ) children is expected to sympathise with a character who steals and kills chickens . I 'm all for the food chain , but you practically see Mr. Fox biting down on their necks ! Surely that 's a bit much ? And also , the plot ... well , it 's kind of boring . I stayed only with the hope of it getting better , but instead I just got more and more annoyed at Mr Fox and his son Ash for making stupid decisions . The humour , meanwhile , falls flat . I laughed only once or twice , even though I specifically recognised attempts at jokes . I think part of it is that the voice acting is so incredibly flat and monotoned . The voice actors have no sense of comic timing , instead aiming for the subtlety of humour that only works with certain mediums . George Clooney aims to portray Mr. Fox as charming and sleek , but his voice has no character . Meryl Streep shows no emotion , I did n't even realise Bill Murray had a role until the end credits , and Ash , twelve-years old in fox-years , sounds like he 's about 30 . I love animation , particularly stop motion , but the visual style actually creeped me out a little bit . Characters are tall , spindly and lacking any warmth of design . They move with very little fluidity and often the animation is jerky and strange . There is also a distinctive 'mixed medium ' feel , as 2D components are added in sporadically and unsuccessfully . Characters look straight at the camera and talked ; it was very awkward . There was one or two moments when Kylie looked straight at the camera , did n't move and had swirls on his eyeballs . It actually freaked me out . Fantastic Mr. Fox had so much potential . Lots of people still seem to like it - look at the reviews . Maybe it just was n't for me .
Maiden Voyage is just that . I 'd like to say straight away that I watched 5mins of this before I just could n't stand it anymore . As already stated in another comment , this film does n't fall into the whole `` so bad it 's good '' thing , it 's just bad . The acting is awful , the sfx are poor , and the story is bland and stupid . Even the extras suck , the `` bag guy guards '' and such appear to hold their weapons like water pistols . Do n't even bother watching this film , the only thing special about it is that , no matter how low your expectations are , you will still be disappointed .
This is probably the worst excuse for television programming since , oh , I do n't know , WHATS HAPPENING NOW ? NOTHING ever happened on this ridiculous `` series '' . Even though it 's mostly shot by Britney and Kevin themselves , you do n't get any good details into their personal lives . It 's mostly just them making stupid , jokey small talk and acting like white trash . Look , I love Britney 's music as much as the next babe , but this show is just pure filler for a nation so addicted to Britney that they would watch her clip her toenails ( yes , that could be an actual episode ) . Thank God these two broke up , because they were PAINFULLY dull together . This show is TOXIC !
`` The house of the spirits '' is quite awful . I live in South America , in a country that suffered a military dictatorship just like the one the movie tries to describe , and even though everyone knows movies may be far far away from reality , this particular movie treats viewers as both ignorant and stupid . Things are not so simple and linear as appears here , and of course political process are much more complicated and interesting that the plot in `` The house ... '' . If you ca n't show that complexity on screen is better not making a movie at all . There are a lot of examples of how can politics be seriously taken in cinema , without so many commonplaces . In some parts I felt that Carmen Miranda may appear within parrots and palm trees . When you talk about certain things you must be not only careful but respectful to your public 's intelligence .
If you want to learn the basics of quantum mechanics , spend your $ 9 on a used textbook , not this movie . I 'm a little worried that the money I spent is being used to buy Kool-Aid for shipment to Guyana . I do n't think the directors really got any point across , but it looks like maybe they were trying to make several : 1 ) Science can explain everything we do , meaning that our lives are deterministic ; 2 ) Science ca n't be used to explain everything we do , meaning that we have free will ; 3 ) Science is , like , really cool , brother ; 4 ) We are God ; 5 ) The world exists only in our minds ; 6 ) Sarah Norman is a tough role to follow and 7 ) here , put this tiny paper square in your mouth and you 'll see some really groovy stuff .
***Possible Spoilers*** When I saw this today I had some expectation of how it would be like , not too high , but not low either . This was nothing like I expected at all though , it seems to me like the movie makers could n't make up their mind of what kind of movie to make . In the begining of the film it 's somewhat mysterious and kinda exciting , but that 'll soon change to some ridiculous scenes - very obvious scenes ... As I watched further I almost fell asleep a couple of times . The ending is the most ridiculous of all though , almost splatter/comedy ... I 'm not saying it does n't have some good scenes it 's just that the film never becomes `` whole '' . 4/10 Movie-Man
Its plain to see why the makers of Scary Movie found it so easy to spoof these 'teen slasher ' movies . They are so unbelievably formulaic . And if Valentine had been released a year or so earlier , I 'm sure they would have been spoofing this film too - that 's if they found any actual original material to distinguish it from the Screams , I know what you did last summers , and Urban Legends . Valentine offers nothing new to this genre , except a better than usual ending which , of course , leaves lots of room for the inevitable sequel . As always , a masked psychotic killer stalks a bunch of beautiful young women , killing the main character 's friends , one by one , in typically over the top style . Lots of T & A on display , no character development , bad acting , and overly elaborate bloodshed . The thing I ca n't stand about these kind of movies is that they pass themselves off as 'who done its ? ' . The thing is that they are n't because the motive is only revealed once the killer has unmasked , and tells the main character who 's friends have now all been murdered . Usually something that was never made at all clear during the film anyway ( eg . main character 's mother 's uncle 's fishing partner kicked his friend 's father 's dog ) . Everybody still left alive throughout the film is a 'suspect ' , but they are more 'Red Herrings ' than suspects . As we all know at this point the main character manages an implausible escape and kills the unmasked psycho killer after the motive is revealed . Valentine followed this formula almost to the letter . ***************SPOILER ! ! ! ! ! ! ( mini spoiler anyway ) *************** In Valentine the motive was not revealed , but more , left for you to think about given that the film did n't quite conclude in the typical 'teen slash ' way . The issue is only part resolved , and the goal of the lead killer may or may not have been fulfilled by surviving the bloodshed and killing almost everybody . Will the killer want more , or were the demons truly vanquished ? This still did n't make Valentine a good film , instead it simply saved it from being as bad as usual , which still does n't count for much . To anybody thinking of making another film along these lines , please do n't . Originality is so important , and its hard to see any originality coming out of this genre .
This film can not even be said to be bad for it is sadly , just painfully mediocre . Lacking any real wit or imagination , a thin plot is stretched to the absolute limit and the ` jokes ' ( which are predictable and threadbare ) are spun out to such inordinate length that boredom and yawns quickly overtake the viewer . Another notch to mark the sad decline of John Waters and a reminder that what ` shocked ' or amused us 30 years ago does n't work quite the same way now . We 've seen it all before , and it no longer breaks any taboos because they have long since evaporated . A major miss .
If you really enjoyed the 2002 Resident Evil movie , then you should just see it instead of waisting 2 hours you 'll never get back . I can not believe that no one has commented that this movie is just a cheap knock off of RE . First , a `` special '' commando force is the unique defense for a facility with a computer matrix that has an AI and holographic projection . And this `` Hive '' rip-off has a series of traps that inevitably kill off one member of the squad at a time . There 's even a chess reference in the code names , which was in the dialog of RE . Despite the fact that there are no zombies , the `` Rook '' , the movie 's nemesis , is some sort of bio-creature , very pail in color suggesting necrotic tissue , with a lot of cyborg components just like a super mutant of RE . So , a wag-of-the-finger to Mr. Richard Taylor for claiming any credit for this story . They are not the same movie obviously , but the writer got the idea watching Resident Evil I think .
Spoilers of both this and The Matrix follow . I liked the original Matrix a great deal . It was not a deep movie , despite Fishburne 's attempts to philosophize , but it was fairly well paced , fun , and I have a soft spot for Hong Kong fights . In the original , Neo was the secret life of the rather unhappy cube worker Anderson . By day , corporate drone , and by night , brave hacker . Eventually , he eventually is forced to choose between these lives by his actions - does he become an outlaw fighting the machine , or does he go back to the safe , forgettable world he started in . Interestingly , he discovers that once one is shorn of illusions , life rather sucks . He has his girl by his side and his boon companions , but he eats processed swill , dresses in sweats , and lives in a truly skungy bit of machinery . Still , the truth makes him free . At least part of the fun of that first movie lay in the `` what if it were me '' questions raised in the viewer 's mind . What if _I_ were capable of the impossible ? What if I were `` The One '' . It does not even matter that much what you are The One example of , with a cool title like that . Further , agent Smith made a wonderful bad guy , as he embodied all of the fear of authority that we carry with us . He was as unstoppable as a terminator , and as merciless . At the end of the Matrix , Neo must return to the Matrix to share his good news of freedom . This movie fails to completely to carry through on the ideas of the original movie , and it does so with such lack of gusto , such poor scriptwriting and such poor editing that I can not believe they had planned these changes . When the dialog is at a fifth grade level , with various long words dropped in randomly , I find it hard to believe that they understand what they are saying . My short list of characterization failures : The Oracle goes from mildly helpful , if deceitful to utterly obstructionist without any real reason . Major `` personalities '' of the matrix are introduced without need - the keymaster , for example , was a cute idea , but just not that interesting a character . Fishburne loses his `` advisor '' role , and gets nothing to replace it with . The people of Zion are not particularly likable , nor would you really _want_ them running the world . Special effects problems : The fight scenes are pointless and intermitable . In The Matrix , you felt Neo could lose , and that he had to become something greater in order to survive . In The Matrix Reloaded , he is merely the viewpoint character of a particularly poorly plotted video game . The fight on the freeway looked quite fake , and not that interesting . Pacing problems . As I mentioned above , the fight scenes were interminable . The rave went on too long - everyone in my row at the theater was looking at their watch . Not because we mind good dancing and good orgies , but because we did not know about the people pictured , nor did we care . Whatever hack wrote the creator 's soliloquy should be blacklisted from the business . It meandered , used words that the scriptwriter clearly did not understand , and was a waste of time and a pacing killer . The creator 's speech could have been done in a tenth the time , and with more peril as `` Zion exists to give rebels a place to go so they do not destroy the Matrix . There are now too many people who do not believe ; the matrix is in danger of crashing and killing every person hooked up to it . Further , the earth can not support even the people in Zion , let alone these others . You may choose one person from Zion to form the new Zion , while I wipe the memories of the people currently in the Matrix . '' Instead , we got a long , drawn out bunch of twaddle . If someone argues that it is deep , ask for a transcript , and try breaking down the sentences . Each one is too long by several clauses , and uses words with clearer , shorter synonyms . So , in summary , not worth seeing . I have seen the third one , and despite what a number of reviewers have said , skip it . It does not save this turkey . The reviewers who feel that the second and third movies were `` deep '' should go see some truly deep movies . Perhaps read a book or two on rhetoric and debate , and perhaps a bit of philosophy . This movie is just not hard to understand , but it is hard to stomach . Scott
be warned : this movie tells lots of love stories without any coherence . The only intention of this movie seems to be showing love in many different ways . Each story has only a few minutes , so there is no development of characters and nearly no plot . Just an sketchy idea of a plot . The writer tried to build in turning points that aimed to surprise the viewer . However , that just did n't work out because you did n't get to know the characters in before or these `` jokes '' were just silly . This is a movie about love that fails to reach your heart . A dozen times . Or even more , I do n't know and I do n't care .
Pointless boring film with charismatic Mercurio completely wasted . Released for a minute on a Thursday in maybe one local cinema and avoided by the entire population of Sydney except me and four others BACK OF BEYOND is a project seemingly created by a producer looking for a fee . Local actors like John Polson and Terry Serio deserve better ( well Polson has morphed into a Director of lame thrillers like SWIMFAN and HIDE AND SEEK ) and Terry Serio seems never to get a guernsey apart from thug roles . But Paul Mercurio should have become one of Australia 's greatest exports on screen . Roles like this are major disappointments and films like this are just a waste of talent and time .
This is a review of 'Freddy Mercury The Untold Story , ' theatrical release , Chicago Int . Film Festival , 2007 One of the phoniest , uninspired and most tedious biographical documentaries I have seen . If the film I saw in a movie theater was originally released on TV , I would plead with its producers and distributors to not fool a paying audience with the false promise of a cinematically worthy documentary feature . Even as a made-for-TV documentary , the sentimental piano solos accompanying interviewees sitting in front of flower arrangements in hotel rooms and the pompous , pseudo-literary narration rang more true of a sleepapedic bed Infomercial . The only redeeming aspects of this `` The Untold Story of Freddy Mercury '' -- or , uhm , was it `` The Untold Story of Princess Diana '' are the original concert , video and TV footage -- unabridged Freddy Mercury and Queen . Testimonial interviews with irrelevant eye witnesses with insights , such as : `` He was a free spirit , '' ( really.. I thought Freddy Mercury was a company man ... ) belittle those Freddy testimonials , by Brian May or Montserrat Caballe that shed new and affectionate light into Mercury 's complex life and character . And ... what up with the Harry Potter-like boarding school segments ? How did the interview with the first girl-crush ( `` ... who now works in a travel agency '' ) and members of Freddy 's first school band contribute to what I really want to know about Mercury ? Vital milestones of his personal life , his sexuality , his artistic style and growth , Queen , the band remain unexplored . These filmmakers do n't ask a single , provocative question , nor do they engage in independent or visionary research of their subject , instead delivering a tedious montage of politely clean and vastly empty comments about an enigmatic and brilliant rock legend , who does n't deserve to be remembered by this History Channel biography your grandparents can doze off to on a Sunday night .
Oh dear ! What a disappointment . I 've been watching old Westerns on British TV for decades , and I was n't aware of this one until its showing yesterday - most other Scott Westerns come around every few years or so and are usually worth watching again . The rich colour and outdoor sets were good , but that 's all I can say about this film . I have to agree with most of the other negative comments already made . Several times I felt like turning it off , and finally I did , halfway through , something I hardly ever do . Scott seemed unusually oily in charming the girls , his two sidekicks were annoying and so was the Mexican bandit lad . And I 've a feeling the army uniforms were 20 years or so too modern , not that this has bothered makers of many other Westerns . Perhaps it got better in the second half , but I could n't be bothered to wait and see .
This program is really overrated . A detective like Danny Pino 's hot-headed character would have been transferred to the `` rubber gun squad '' years ago . The whole squad is made up of sanctimonious egomaniacs who judge people whose actions go back decades by the standards of 2007 . Every Vietnam veteran character they 've ever had has turned out to be the killer , unless it was another Vietnam veteran . There has only been one black murderer , and he was put up to it by his white boss . The only Hispanic killer was a `` race traitor '' who killed another Hispanic to frame a Hispanic street kid for a crime that ( naturally ) two rich white kids committed . What a bunch of propaganda . Hey , screenwriters : minorities and poor people commit murder too . Only on this show are most murderers upper-class whites . What 's more , the arrests of people in their 70s , 80s , and 90s for crimes they committed 50-60 years ago are a joke . No real-life DA will push for murder one because it means the state will be stuck with their humongous medical bills until they finally kick . The state would be doing their families and insurance companies a favor . The prosecutor will just plead them to involuntary manslaughter and they wo n't serve a day . The only really old criminals who go to prison are either organized crime figures or ex-Nazis , whose high-profile convictions boost DA 's careers .
Worst . Movie . Ever . What was the purpose of filming this remake ( aside from turning it into a 90-minute informercial for the movie 's soundtrack ) ? Zombies that *run* ? ? ? I guess the director never watched the original `` Dead '' films , which show stiff-limbed ( from rigor mortis ) creatures shuffling/shambling toward their living prey . And how , exactly , did the survivors know which boat in the marina belonged to the recently departed Steve ? 1/10
The script was VERY weak w/o enough character arcs to make you care one bit about the characters or what happens to them . The script is way too talky and not enough gore or action to even call it slow paced . The story gets to the point that you just want everyone to shut up and die as quickly as possible so you do n't have to listen to them talk this very muted , stiff dialogue . On a technical note , the music mix is way to high and makes it hard to understand what is being said most times . Then again , this could be called a blessing . Overall , this same story could have better been told in a short film w/ a running time under 30 minutes . The obvious `` in your face '' homages to Sam Raimi and `` Evil Dead '' would have been good had they been more subtle , but here they seem more like a bald faced rip off . C'mon , this kind of 35mm budget and THIS is the best that could be done ? Still , the cinematography , lighting design and shots were very well done indeed .
The competition for the worst Warner Bros Kay Francis movie is stiff . I 've only seen perhaps eight of them , but Comet over Broadway is the worst so far . The very best thing about it is that it 's short . Oh , and the Orry-Kelly gowns ( of course ) are fine . James Wong Howe 's cinematography is not . Kay Francis throughout looks fat-faced and far less attractive than she normally does . Minna Gombell whom I do n't know otherwise is good as a semi-tough `` burlesque '' dancer ( it looked more like a fashion show than burlesque ) . The closing shot - Kay Francis and her child ( when did the child learn that Kay Francis was her mother ? Did I doze off ? ) walking up a dirt path toward a prison painted in misty outlines on a sound stage drop is beyond ludicrous . The whole film is so cheap , so implausible and so careless that it feels infected by a sour cynicism on the part of everyone who made it : Warner Bros tossing garbage to dolts who do n't know , in Warner Bros ' cynical estimation of them , that what they 're getting is garbage .
Last week , I took a look at the weekly Nielsen ratings , and there was Veronica Mars , supposedly `` the best show you 're not watching '' . Well , they 're right that you 're not watching it . It aired twice and was ranked 147 and 145 out of 147 . Translation : this is the lowest-rated show on any nationally broadcast network ... and deservedly so . I tried to watch it a couple of times because of all the press coverage hyping it as a `` great '' show , a `` realistic look '' at life and all such nonsense . The reality was otherwise . Veronica Mars is a bore . It 's as unrealistic as it gets , and it richly deserves to be canceled . The only Mystery is why CW felt compelled to put on its inaugural schedule the lowest-rated show in memory , after two years of continued commercial and artistic failure .
Sometimes you wonder how some people get funding to create a movie as bad as this one . You can only stand about 5 minutes of this utter piece of garbage before you stomp back into blockbuster and demand your money back . I will now look at Michael Clarke Duncan with apprehension ... why ... .he lent his name to this vermin .
When you look at this now and hear all the language in here , it 's amazing this was rated `` PG , '' but that 's the 1970s rating system for you . Peter Falk spews out the Lord 's name in vain six times in the first ten minutes alone in this movie ! Yet , few people consider that offensive , and certainly not the scumbags who make movies nor the people who `` rate '' them . The cast is a clue to how profane this film can be : Falk , Peter Boyle , Allen Garfield , Warren Oates , Gena Rowlands and Paul Sorvino are n't exactly actors you would n't find in `` The Sound Of Music . '' I like heist movies , and a lot of films by director William Friedkin , but this script does n't deliver and it just has way too much of the `` Sleazy '70s '' feel to it , visually and audibly . For those who loved Falk in TV 's `` Columbo '' it must come as a shock to hear him use as much profanity as he did in films . This is far from the only case .
Roeg has done some great movies , but this a turkey . It has a feel of a play written by an untalented high-school student for his class assignment . The set decoration is appealing in a somewhat surrealistic way , but the actual story is insufferable hokum .
I can only assume that the other reviewers of this `` film '' are stockholders in the production company , as this was quite possibly the worst movie I 've seen in the last five years . From the opening shot of a Rabbi laughing uncontrollably for no apparent reason , it was clear that the actors in this film would kill to be considered `` B-Level . '' Both my wife and I were in a great mood before starting this film , and we were genuinely looking forward to a funny popcorn movie . We knew we had n't rented Citizen Kane , and we were n't expecting to see the most amazing movie ever . However , after 40 minutes of enduring the most painfully unfunny bit of garbage I 've ever seen , we shut it off instead of wasting another minutes of our lives . If a `` comedy '' with no laughs , terrible acting , thin plot and annoying characters are your thing , then this film is for you . Honestly , Troll 2 is better -- at least I laughed at the popcorn sex scene . I can not justify writing a longer review of this picture because I 've already wasted almost an hour trying to find one joke .
Guy de Maupassant was a novelist who wrote a novel about a man , a poor man , without any moral qualities . He only wanted to success in a society where all the people , the politic men , the businessmen , the journalists , the women are corrupt . The only king is MONEY . The Maupassant hero , Charles Forestier is going higher and higher in the society scale thanks to his seduction poser . He is in love with all the women who could help him in his action to climb the society stapes . At the end of the novel , he married himself with the biggest daily paper owner 's daughter , in the greatest church of Paris : `` La Madeleine '' . `` Le Tout Paris '' is there . He has a fortune and more , he will become a member of Parliament and later a Minister . The `` useless '' women are out of his view , but he is always keeping in touch with the pretty and the usefull women . The picture `` THE PRIVATE AFFAIRS OF BEL AMI '' is a story of MORALITY . It is everything , but not a story in the Maupassant idea . Why had they put `` BEL AMI '' in its title ?
I had never heard of this Adam Sandler movie until I saw it on the wall at Blockbuster . Being an Adam Sandler fan at the time , I rented it . HONESTLY I could only watch about 30 mins . of it . It was TERRIBLE . Do whatever it takes to keep this out of the hands of the public . I honestly hope this movie goes OOP soon , and I hope it STAYS THAT WAY !
I watched this film in youth group , where my otherwise intuitive youth leader and his wife squeed over it . Then some adult couple at a church-related Christmas party misled themselves into giving a copy of this movie to every single family in attendance , and now my household is stuck with the film ( though it thankfully still remains in its shrinkwrap ) . I cried bitter tears over these sad events , and here 's why : First off : this film has good intentions , especially if you 're a Christian like me . This movie is trying to show that you should put your faith in God and that it 'll make your life better . Not so bad , right ? Eh . It turns out a be a problem -- a big one . This movie was made by a church , so of course every single issue has to be dealt with as tastefully for Christians as possible . It is all black-and-white , no gray areas . God 's grace and will in this movie is a predictable thing , and it comes instantly to all those who do His bidding . This is not the God I know . This is not the Christian life I am familiar with . The God I believe in is a powerful and trustworthy God , but He is not one that grants my every wish . I follow Him as best I can , though the going is often hard ; yet the football team in this movie finds their humility and self-control a lot easier than anyone should EVER find it . I can not relate to cardboard cutouts who flip from bad-side to good-side in the course of a few structured movie scenes . And when I DO follow His commandments as laid out in the Bible , I certainly do n't find myself showered in blessing as these characters do . The largest of my immediate rewards is knowing that I have done the right thing ; everything else comes with long , messy , arduous work . But take the example this movie sets : Grant Taylor coaches the football team at Shiloh Christian school , which has had 6 losing seasons in a row . He may lose his job over it , and he and his wife are low on money as it is . They want a baby , but the doctor tells him he is sterile . Oh , and his car does n't work . And the boys on his football team are disrespectful to their parents , whiny after their million losses , and bad at kicking field goals . This is sure one rundown community here . But wait , Grant Taylor decides he 's going to trust in God for everything ! And he passes on his faith to his team . So far , so good . Not for long . As they begin to obey , blessing literally POUR in on them . Suddenly the students stop disrespecting their parents ; the school has a big `` revival '' ; the team starts winning EVERY game ; they even win the grand championship against the hardest team in the league ! Coach Taylor 's job is reassured ; the school gets him a shiny new truck as a present ( which , by the way , is the epitome of shallow , fair-weather employers ) ; he gets a raise ; his wife ( get this ) even gets pregnant from his sterile sperm ! And that skinny kid manages to kick his first darn field goal right when it really matters ! ! Wowzers , woot , yay , praise the Lord , etcetera , etcetera ! ! ! ... Yipe . Just YIPE . Nobody in my church has ever experienced Christ in a such a cut-and-dry manner . Yes , there have been miracles aplenty in my family , as well as gifts and creature comforts , and I attribute them to God 's grace and lovingkindness . But God is n't some faucet tap that you turn on and off by being good or bad ! He is by and large a mystery ; His gifts come unexpectedly , often when you think you do n't need them but you really do . It 's a long , hard slog to the road of fulfillment , and things NEVER turn out the way you thought they would . This movie has good intentions . But because of its supreme shallowness and total escapism , it tanks tremendously to a 1/10 . The bad acting and sports movie clichés seem to be mere pimples next to the leprous falsehoods that this movie inadvertently pushes . To all you future churches planning to make a movie : do n't be afraid to show REAL life , even you have to add some inconvenient truths into the mix . However much the baser populace is wowed by this cotton candy treat , nobody has learned anything substantial from it . Give us the meat , the bones , the REAL stuff ! True life applies to everyone , not just Christians , and that 's one aspect `` Facing the Giants '' did n't manage to grasp .
A study in bad . Bad acting , bad music , bad screenplay , bad editing , bad direction and a bad idea . Pieces of schlock do n't come any cheesier or unintentionally funnier than this ... thing . By the end of the `` movie '' , you are left wondering why did they bother in the first place . Poor Malcolm McDowell , was he short of cash or something ? Still thinking of seeing this ? *SPOILERS AHOY* : If you have n't died of laughter in the first thirty minutes , by the time you 'll see the cyborg-populated town named `` Cytown '' , you will . Avoid this , my movie-loving friends . Avoid .
This show seemed to be kinda good . Kyra Sedgwick is an OK actress and I like police series , but somewhere in the production this program went awfully wrong . First of all , the writers should have more suspects than one , you know who did it EVERY TIME ! ! ! ! ! That makes it boring . The main character is unbelievably annoying and its not believable in any way . I know they wanted her to be tough , but shes mean , stupid and a bad chief . The crimes are uninteresting and bland , and its just lame all the way . As stated above , I hate it ... . All in all , this was a big disappointment and very bad indeed ...
John Wayne & Albert Dekker compete for oil rights on Indian territory , and for the attention of Martha Scott in this Republic Pictures film shot out of Utah , USA . An interesting Western of sorts due to its characters and its more modern setting , with Wayne & Dekker playing the old and new factions of the West . It 's based on a story by Thomson Burtis who co-writes the script along with Eleanore Griffin and Ethel Hill . Albert Rogell directs in the workmanlike way that befits his career . A pretty mundane story is in truth saved by its final third , where thankfully the action picks up and we are treated to something resembling a pulse . The light hearted approach to the romantic strand does n't sit quite right , and a glorious fist fight between the two protagonists is ruined by Rogell being unable to disguise the stunt men doing the work . But hey , stunt men deserve their moment of glory always . Solid support comes from George 'Gabby ' Hayes and Wayne as usual has much screen charisma , particularly when rattling off his pistol . But in spite of its better than usual Republic budget , it remains a film of interest only to 1940s Wayne enthusiasts . 4/10
I watched this movie last night on one of the pay-per-view channels , and while watching it I quickly wondered why I bothered . In all honesty I really did expect something more from this film . Maybe something along the lines of 'Conspiracy Theory ' . Why ? Maybe because of the casting . I mean , Nicolas Cage and Harvey Keitel , after all . Not to mention Jon Voight and Christopher Plummer . Now I 'm wondering , why did they bother ? But instead of an absorbing action cum mystery drama I was caught up in a pastiche of breakneck silliness a là 'The Goonies ' , which to my great surprise appears to have garnered some actual critical praise . Perhaps it 's because 'The Goonies ' was clearly targeted toward the pre-teen and teen audiences . Whereas 'National Treasure ' , judging from the previews , was seriously intended to appeal to an adult audience . Suspension of disbelief is one thing . It 's how one can enjoy sci-fi and horror . But I found myself actually resisting the heaping tablespoons of paranoid and conspiracy-laden tripe being shoved at the audience . Oh , the screenwriter threw around all the jargon intended to evoke a sense of serious engaged wonderment . `` Wow ! The Masons . The Knights Templars . You know , this could really be true ! '' I think the writer really lost me when Gates said the Founding Fathers hid the treasure to keep it out of the hands of the British ! And just were did the Knights Templar come from ? New Jersey ? Oh , I forget . From France ! Which goes a long way to explain how it ended up in Philadelphia during the Revolution . It was brought there by agents of Napoleon ! Anyway , you see what I 'm getting at . The premise of the movie is interesting . And I really do think it could have succeeded as a serious mystery drama . But it just comes off as another kid flick in grown-up clothing . In the end I think it asks the audience not simply to suspend belief but to render itself willfully ignorant to an insulting degree . I 've just finished watching several items by Werner Herzog and Istvan Szabo . It 's a shock to switch from fine dining to Hollywood Big Mac and fries . Okay , okay . If you pant over chases , explosions , and 'gee-whiz ' gimmickry you 'll enjoy 'National Treasure ' . But it 's the sort of movie , well , have you ever stood outside a cinema waiting to get in while the previous audience comes out ? And all the young kids are talking excitedly among themselves and saying things like , `` Wow ! Did you see how that thing blew up ? That was so cool ! '' 'National Treasure ' is that kind of movie .
Let me confess . I found this video used and bought it because Guttenberg looked so sexy in his underwear on the jacket . But inside was another story . Besides the fact that the movie was basically a parody of `` invisible-man '' genre special effects ( highly visible strings and other such paraphernalia ) , the script wasted no chance -- in fact it went out of its way -- in insulting all non-WASP races and real-or-imagined homosexuals . Every insult aimed at a person in the script was either homophobic or racist or both . It starts to grate on your nerves , along with the shaky sound , candid- camera style photography and melodramatic story . However , the end is somewhat of a surprise . But by the time you get there , you hardly care less . Too bad , it could been a reasonably good movie .
This is the most cliche ridden and worst romantic comedy I have ever seen . Every scene is cringe worthy and the two lead actors - Corey and Danny are soo annoying . Corey is very dumb and naive and should have never listened to Danny 's false promises . Neve Campbell and the killer from Urban Legend are the only redeeming qualities in this poor attempt of a film . Danny ( Dean Paras ) looks in his late thirties and the girl he 's trying to bed - Corey looks as if she 's still in college . Here in Australia , this film is called Too Smooth ; there is nothing smooth about this film at all . 1/10 Avoid
I do n't know what it is about this movie- director Sam Mraovich somehow messed up just about every little aspect in this movie . I would normally say that this is a movie that should not exist , but this movie may be the most important of all time . This movie should exist for the sole purpose of being without a doubt 'The Worst Movie Ever Made ' . I 've seen bad movies in my lifetime , but this somehow breaks what I considered bad into something much more hard to imagine . Everything in this movie is hilarious , but the single funniest thing is that Mraovich himself considers this to be a great movie . Oh wow ...
When I first saw a glimpse of this movie , I quickly noticed the actress who was playing the role of Lucille Ball . Rachel York 's portrayal of Lucy is absolutely awful . Lucille Ball was an astounding comedian with incredible talent . To think about a legend like Lucille Ball being portrayed the way she was in the movie is horrendous . I can not believe out of all the actresses in the world who could play a much better Lucy , the producers decided to get Rachel York . She might be a good actress in other roles but to play the role of Lucille Ball is tough . It is pretty hard to find someone who could resemble Lucille Ball , but they could at least find someone a bit similar in looks and talent . If you noticed York 's portrayal of Lucy in episodes of I Love Lucy like the chocolate factory or vitavetavegamin , nothing is similar in any way-her expression , voice , or movement . To top it all off , Danny Pino playing Desi Arnaz is horrible . Pino does not qualify to play as Ricky . He 's small and skinny , his accent is unreal , and once again , his acting is unbelievable . Although Fred and Ethel were not similar either , they were not as bad as the characters of Lucy and Ricky . Overall , extremely horrible casting and the story is badly told . If people want to understand the real life situation of Lucille Ball , I suggest watching A & E Biography of Lucy and Desi , read the book from Lucille Ball herself , or PBS ' American Masters : Finding Lucy . If you want to see a docudrama , `` Before the Laughter '' would be a better choice . The casting of Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz in `` Before the Laughter '' is much better compared to this . At least , a similar aspect is shown rather than nothing .
Though the movie may have been `` true '' to Lewis 's book ( in that the script was basically word-for-word , verbatim ) , it failed to capture any of the grandeur that would otherwise be associated with an epic story like this . The mythical creatures ( unicorns , centaurs , griffins , ghouls , ghosts ) are *drawn* in , and as in the previous review , the green-screen flying sequence was very hard to swallow . I nearly laughed to death when I saw the humanoid beavers with their giant stiff suits and buck teeth ; I nearly cried when I heard the wolf 's `` howl -- '' a man in a grey fuzzy suit basically shrieking as loudly and as girlishly as he possibly could . All of the acting is tremendously forced , especially that of little Lucy Penvensie ... I could only take so much indignation , desperation , and buck teeth in the ( what felt like ) fourteen hours of watching the movie . The actress who plays the White Witch , in all her histrionics , seems that she 'd be more at home on stage , where a booming voice , spread arms , and a valiant effort at something Shakespearian would be more than welcome . The sets feel claustrophobic , whether the scenes are taking place indoors or outdoors . Indoors , it 's as if BBC could only afford to spend $ 100 on constructing a set , and so it is very small , and all the characters are constantly huddled together . The White Witch 's castle is a run-down , rotting countryside English castle filled with Styrofoam statues and bad lighting . When the Penvensie children are wandering through the woods -- actually , *any* scene in the woods -- feels like they are simply wandering around in circles . The only thing that looks decent in the film is Aslan , but you can bet that BBC probably blew the film 's entire budget on building the mechanical feline . It looks great when it 's standing still and before it starts speaking , but once it starts moving , you ca n't help but pity the poor man who has to be the rear-end in the lion suit . Yes , if you are a hardcore Narnia fan , you may want to see this version , simply because it preserves every word that Lewis ever wrote -- but Lewis was certainly no screenwriter , and a lot of the dialogue feels chunky and awkward when on screen . During the scene in which the children are at the Beavers ' and getting ready to flee from the wolves , Mrs. Beaver 's incessant , `` oh , just ONE more thing , dearies , and then we will be ready to go , '' punctuated by the children 's simultaneous cries and sighs and moans of `` NO , Mrs. Beaver , PLEASE ! '' -- a scene of comic relief , so incongruous ( they are supposed to be FLEEING from imminent danger , not wondering about whether to pack the sewing machine or not ) , detracts from the drama that the scene might otherwise have . In fact , the whole movie is peppered with directing faux pas such as these . I would recommend seeing the new Narnia ( Disney 2005 ) . The new movie , with updated effects , spectacular computer animation , great timing all around , and a gorgeous and scene- stealing White Witch ( who plays her part with all the subtle evil of a seasoned politician , as opposed to a shrieking banshee ) captures all of the grandeur and the magnificence of the world of Narnia without detracting the least bit from Lewis 's original vision ( I think ) . Lucy is a lot cuter ( NO buck teeth , YAY ! ) , as are the beavers ( and realistically-sized ) , and bratty BBC Edmund has nothing on the divine , Desperately-Hungry-for-Acceptance-Insecure-and- Angsting-with-an-Inferiority-Complex Edmund that the new Disney version fronts . Unless you 're the type who enjoys wasting time by making fun of campy movies , I would not recommend this film to anyone .
I like end-of-days movies . I like B-movies . I was hoping I would like this movie . I could ignore the poor effects , the often atrocious music , the cringe-inducing lines . I could ignore the unexplained events , and the fact that the movie constantly relies on deus ex machina is excusable , given the subject matter . I could ignore the fact that the people who fight hunger and try to reach world peace are the bad guys . None of these things kill the movie . What kills this movie is that it 's just plain and simple boring . Nothing actually happens ; almost all scenes in the movie are designed to push the movie creators ' morals on the viewers , at the cost of actually having a coherent story , or any kind of suspense . If you 're looking for an entertaining B-movie , look elsewhere . This movie is just boring .
This one is just like the 6th movie . The movie is really bad . It offers nothing in the death department . The one-liners are bad and are something that should n't be in a NOES movie . Freddy comes off as a happy child in the whole movie . Lisa Wilcox is still the only thing that makes this one worth while . The characters are extremely underdeveloped . All in all better than the 6th one , but still one the worst movies of the series . My rating 2/10
John Huston 's Wise Blood was a more horrifying misrepresentation of Flannery O'Connor 's book than I could have imagined . From the utterly terrible acting performances ( and do n't you , `` Oh that was done on purpose , you just do n't get it '' me ! ) to the musical score that was more suited to an episode of Rockford Files , this film was revolting . I viewed it with no ill-will at the outset , and , in fact , expected a pleasant experience . But the misrepresentation of the southern characters , from the ridiculously fraudulent southern drawl to the lilting , comedic way their faith was portrayed , was inexcusable . Right down to it 's end , which was completely devoid of any character sentiment , it failed in every place that O'Connor 's book shined and resonated . The actors portraying the `` southern '' policemen may as well have been eating smothered hot-dogs from NYC street stands and quoting Godfather . The one redeeming acting performance was Ned Beatty 's lively and dead-on representation of Hoover Shoates , a religious con-artist who hears Moates preaching the Church of Christ Without Christ and sees dollar signs and business opportunities . O'Connor 's powerful book is most well-known for it 's creepy , religious undercurrent that jibes the seemingly lifeless cadaver of `` Faith '' . Mr. Huston 's film is a shameful mockery of the author 's intentions , as they are understood by me and most of her fans , if I may be so bold as to say so . While I acknowledge that I ca n't know exactly what the author wished to convey , I have enough affection for her and her works to desire to remain a fan . If I viewed Wise Blood the way Mr. Huston apparently did , I would have thrown it in the trash . For Flannery 's sake , and mine , I forgive you , John Huston . The forgetting ... .that will take some time .
I loved the Batman tv series and was really looking forward to this . But they tried to do too much . Why they had the story of Adam West and Burt Ward trying to recover the batmobile was beyond me . I do n't want to knock Burt or Adam for the way they look now ... ..It 's been 35 years since they appeared at Batman and Robin , but to see them dressed in dress suits and fighting 'badguys ' was kinda sad . I would rather of just seen the ex-stars do commentary . The batmobile side story was stupid . As for the flashback movie , I think it was too short and left out way too much . It was really just a quick overview in my opinion . I 'd like more background . They showed the Penguin and Joker for about a minute each just to tell the same stuff I already knew . The Joker had a mustache under his makeup and the penguin had to smoke even though he hated it and was an ex-smoker . That was it on those 2 . I 'd love to read the book . I am sure it has more in it that this showed . Like why was there 2 Riddlers or why 3 Catwoman 's or 3 Mister Freezes . Where was Commishioner Gordon , Cheif OHara , Alfred , Mister Freeze , King Tut , etc . the List goes on . Like I said even the ones that were in this one were barely in it . Very disappointing . And really corny .
Comedy Central has a habit of putting on great programs at times-Chappelle 's Show , The Daily Show , Colbert Report , and then there are those that some people love or hate-Stella , Dr. Katz . Then there are some shows that have their defenders but are just plain awful- Mencia , and now , Sarah Silverman . This show is based on the fact Silverman is self-Centered , which can be funny ( Colbert Report ) but can be horrible ( Mind of Mencia ) . It should shock no one that I believe the latter is the case . This show is a parody of a sitcom and society , a program so absurd it loses itself in its absurdity and it simply is n't funny . A woman farting has been done in comedy many many times because its not something that 's common . We do n't need 25 minutes of it . When a criminal is disarmed by a queef , it simply loses its appeal-we saw it in Jay and Silent Bob Strike back , except the women were hotter , and the whole scene was more absurd , making it better . But the best comparison of this show is to Stella , except Stella was more subtle , which is what made the absurdist comedy funny . It had better acting , and I suppose , a bit more of a fantastical realist view . Perhaps the fact some reviews are so negative ( I 'm very skeptical of the critical acclaim but do not dispute fan reaction ) to this show is the amount of advertising on it , very obnoxious ads through many programs far outdo advertising on for other programs . Many people are wondering why Sarah Silverman has a career , and others are still bitter when better shows have been canceled . This show should 've never made it past the unaired pilot stage . Back to Norm showed far more promise , yet this show makes it further . And as far as critics being correct , many things have been universally panned have seen their status rise immensely . Last I checked , Britney Spears gets good reviews too also . Take that comparison however you want because someone will no doubt accuse me of being psychotic on IMDb for not liking this show .
But this movie was a bore . The history part was fine but the musical part was not . Not one song I cared about and no soundtrack to be heard . If Sweet Jesus '' was suppose to be comic relief it never work . If John Adams was suppose to be the obnoxious annoying one , the rest of them were trying to overthrow him in every scene . Hancock and Jefferson were the only bearable characters in the whole movie . The historical quotes and the debate about slavery in their historical context were interesting enough but not enough to overcome the lack of music in a musical . Should n't you be humming the songs after a musical , except for a few chirps , nothing else was worth the breath .
Outlandish premise that rates low on plausibility and unfortunately also struggles feebly to raise laughs or interest . Only Hawn 's well-known charm allows it to skate by on very thin ice . Goldie 's got ta be a contender for an actress who 's done so much in her career with very little quality material at her disposal ...
All the elements for a bad night at the movies are in place : dialog riddled with biological techno-babble , chintzy sets , balsa-wood acting , a horrific late-'80s Casio score , and an overall look that suggests anything on the Sci-Fi Channel 's programming schedule , circa 1993 . Though `` Metamorphosis '' starts off with a lot of promise , the film unravels into bland idiocy and MST3K-style cheese as Clark Kent wannabe 'Doctor ' Peter Houseman ( Gene LeBrock ) is pressured into releasing information on his secretive projects . But when he tests his vague experiment on himself , he transforms into a vaguely-defined creature ( that bears more than a passing resemblance to 'Dr . Freudstein ' from `` House by the Cemetery '' ) . The FX work is fairly good for such an obviously low-budget production ( though I suspect most of it is kept in shadow for a reason ) , but overall , `` Metamorphosis '' leaves a bad retro aftertaste in your guts , in spite of its hopes to sway us otherwise . I ca n't help but agree with one character 's closing remark : `` ( It was ) A nightmare ... from the past ! ''
It 's a bad movie , it seems like there is only 5 police in HK , they were not using there gun and this makes me feel like a Jacky Chan 's movie . All the time they were using their gun to point at the suspect only . When they finally use their gun is when they kill each other , what a funny movie . In The movie , it 's like all the good guys died without a reason . They story line of the movie also sucks , the story jump here and there and bored people . But if you wanted to see a bloody movie , I think this is only a OK type of movie , I think U.S. made zombie movie is more bloodier than this one
I am sick and tired of all these little weenies going on about how this movie `` rocked '' . It is pure CG over-acted CRAP ! Do n't send an Assassin , it 's much more sensible to smuggle hundreds of brightly colored , aggressive , venomous Snakes on a Plane ! The only reason people like this movie because they feel they have to . It is not `` so bad it 's good '' It 's so bad I 'd rather be poked in the eye with a sharp stick then be subjected to this again . I honestly thought was going to be a COMEDY like AIRPLANE ! A spoof ! Was I wrong . It 's that whole `` It sucks , get it ! '' Or Samuel A. Jackson yells `` Snakes on the Plane ! thing . Well I 'm sorry , I do n't get it . It looks like a bunch of wimps gave the movie industry more money to make more movies like Triple X and Die Hard . If you what spend money to watch a movie in the company of the same people who bought William Hung 's CD , still live in their mommies basement , and stink of plastic chair sweat from days on the computer playing online games and looking at porn , then rush to the theater and ask for one ( since I doubt you have a girlfriend ) ticket for Snakes on a stupid-butt Plane . To hell with movies like Full metal Jacket , Pulp Fiction , True Romance , 12 Monkeys , Clerks , etc . There 's no irony in watching good movies . The true decline of the western civilization . Calling this a cult film is an Insult to true Cult classics like Repo man , or even Orgazmo . I 've said enough here .
Having read some good reviews about this film I thought it was about time I go and see it . Well I do n't know why I bothered . Basically this family is entrusted with a clue that leads to a whole big stash of ancient treasure , hidden by the Knights Templar during the War of Independence . Apparently it had to be kept out of the hands of the British at all costs . Firstly , why did said Knights move the treasure from Europe to America ? How did Nic Cages character figure out that 'Charlotte ' was in fact a ship ? How do they figure out all the clues and riddles in about a minute ? And how could two people suddenly become master thieves and steal what is probably the best guarded bit of paper in the world ? These are just some of the plot holes in this inane bit of Hollywood action gone wrong . Cage has been in some great action movies - 'Face-Off ' and 'The Rock ' - so why has he lowered himself to this ? Is he getting too old ? ! His character is pretty annoying really - Somehow this 'ordinary ' guy steals the Declaration of Independancd , outruns thieves with guns , escapes from the FBI and generally seems invincible . The whole film does n't really make any sense and all in all it was quite a disappointment .
I 'm sure that Operations Dames was a favorite at the drive-ins back in the day . There 's absolutely nothing in the way of a plot that you might miss if you were otherwise preoccupied . And if you needed to get in the mood for other activities you did have some curvaceous cuties on screen to get you in the mood . Otherwise there ai n't a whole lot that Operations Dames has going for it . It 's set in the Korean War where a platoon of GIs together with a British tommy gets a little too far forward and has to get back to the UN lines . Bad enough already , but these guys also come across a stranded bunch of USO girls and their choreographer in the same predicament . You know what 's sad about this film is that it took women generations to finally get accepted in the Army and in combat situations . These bimbos from the USO set women 's liberation back light years . In fact not even the hard bitten professional soldier who is the sergeant in charge of these men can keep it in his pants . But that was probably the better to remind some what they were at the drive-in for . This no name cast is better off with me not recognizing any of them for any individual effort . Operations Dames is definitely a team flop .
The first one was different and funny . This attempt should have never left the studio . This movie does not make you laugh . It is a weak attempt at gross out humor . The movie picks out current and old movies to rip-off . This time the jokes seem used and overdone . The audience that I saw it with only re-acted to Hannibal dinner scene and was otherwise asleep .
The Brothers Quay are directors , judging by conventional thought , should have stuck to making short films . I myself actually really liked their first feature , Institute Benjamenta , but judging by their sophomore effort , The Piano Tuner of Earthquakes , I 'm willing to agree they do n't come close to equaling their past genius at feature length . Piano Tuner is , without a doubt , a gorgeous film to look at , and often to listen to . Unfortunately , it 's borderline painful to sit through with its convoluted narrative and glacial pace . Reading the plot synopsis , it sounds like a pretty good story . But the Brothers fail miserably to bring it to life . One thing they should consider avoiding completely in the future : dialogue . My God , it 's awful here . A huge bust .
As others have said , `` No , Luciano '' is a more apt title or response to this movie title . For entertainment , the great opera singer should stick to singing ... ..not that he 's a terrible actor . It 's just that this movie stinks . The first 25 minutes were fine - a nice family movie , as it were - but after that it 's nothing but a boring soap opera . Appropriately playing a singer , Pavarotti , as `` Giorgio Fini , '' loses his voice a few times and the doctor , `` Pamela Taylor '' ( Kathryn Harrold ) comes to the rescue . The singer then falls for the doctor , the doctor slowly falls for the singer , the two argue all the time and on and on and on it goes . Pavarotti has a winning smile and is a likable guy . It 's Harrold that spoils things and after watching her here I am not surprised she did n't become a star . There is nice scenery in the movie to enjoy , good shots of San Francisco and Italy , at least in the first half of the film . I got bored and do n't remember much about the second half of it .
I ca n't imagine anyone would ever , in a million years , want to watch this movie . Not because it was one of the worst ever made ( it was n't ) , but largely because it 's about 20 years old and oh-so-out of the mainstream . I was trying to find out where I saw an actor before and this popped up . So , yeah , a kid stops playing little league because he does n't like nukes , this prompts major media attention and a quick resolution to the cold war . The end . A fantasy , to be sure , but one so cockeyed it would make John Lennon blush . Since terrorism has replaced communism as the -ism that scares the hell out of us , this movie really has no relevance , except as an ( innaccurate ) look back at those times . The writing , acting , and film craft are similarly undeveloped . The reason I rated it as highly as I did was because I watched this movie around 50 times while I was 5-6 years old and still have a little place in my heart for it , but I now realize that it does n't quite cut mustard . So , if the law of large numbers holds true and someone eventually does decide to check out this movie , realize that there are much better ways to spend your time , but also much worse ones . ( I will refrain from a John Q. tirade for now . )
I did n't enjoy this film . I thought the acting was n't very good and the story was boring . A 20year old computer saving the day ? I thought that this was just slightly far fetched , even for a film . I could n't figure out why they could n't just turn it off , why not take a sledgehammer to it . Its a shame , but after the original film from the 80s you expected so much more than what was actually delivered . This film could have been a 21st century version of the old film , it was n't . If that is what you want to watch , do not watch this film ! Even if the old computer had n't have turned up to save day , this would still , in my opinion , be a very very cheesy flick..
Rather then long dance sequences and close ups of the characters which made the film drag on - the movie would have been better served explaining the story and motivations of the characters . The marginalisation of Nubo , the minister , auntie , mother - and the dumbing down of the dynamic and IMPORTANT rivalry between hatsumo and mameha and hatsumo and sayuri made the movie lack any real depth . If you had n't read the book you would not really understand why Sayuri loved the Chairman and why Mameha became her mentor at all . Visually the film was stunning - and the actors all did the best with the C rate script they were given , but that was all that was good about this movie .
This is an `` anthology '' horror film . It 's made up of 4 short stories taken from the fiction of Robert Bloch ( who wrote for Weird Tales and was personal friends with H.P . Lovecraft , but is most famous for the original story `` Psycho '' ) . The quality of the stories is very uneven and I did n't think very much about the film was creepy or horrific at all . It would have been better to do it as a comedy like `` Comedy of Terrors . '' Only the last of the 4 stories was really done in a humorous way , and it 's probably the best of them ( the one with Ingrid Pitt ) . I 've seen a few of these Amicus anthology films and the only one that was really worth my time was Freddie Francis ' `` Tales from the Crypt . '' The anthology style works well for the producers , because it means that they can hire a bunch of `` big name '' actors , employ them for only one week of shooting or so , and then bring in the next big name . So you essentially pay for 6 weeks of movie star salary but get 5 or 6 different names on the marquee . But that 's very unfortunate for the audience , because the audience would like to see some scenes with Peter Cushing , Christopher Lee , and Ingrid Pitt actually acting together . Instead they 're stuck in these vignettes by themselves . So let 's take them one at a time , briefly . The first story has Denholm Elliot , who does a really admirable job of trying to bring some dignity to his silly role as a writer terrorized by his own character . Unfortunately the actor who plays Dominic , the source of the horror , Tom Adams , just looks silly which ruins any possible horror . There 's some hilarious stuff if you want to laugh at it though , like the scene where Dominic kills Elliot 's psychiatrist . It 's the patented scene where the killer creeps up behind the victim but nobody is watching , so the whole audience is supposed to shout out `` LOOK OUT BEHIND YOU ! '' The second story is the one with Peter Cushing . God I love that man so much . Too bad so many of his films , like this one , pretty much stink . In the story he 's supposed to be pining away for a long-lost love , and he sees her likeness in a wax museum . It 's a completely predictable story that goes nowhere . Then you have the bit with Christopher Lee , where he plays the father of a little kid who turns out to be a witch . Again this bit could have been fun if it had been played for laughs . But instead we 're supposed to be horrified when Lee slaps the child and surprised when she turns out to be evil . The actress , Chloe Franks , was pretty good in that type of `` Bad Seed '' role though . The last story is kind of amusing ... Ingrid Pitt plays an actress and Jon Pertwee plays an actor who accidentally buys a vampire cape that turns him into a real vampire . That 's about all the story has to offer . I was surprised at how bad Ingrid Pitt 's English is , I guess she must have been dubbed in some of the other films I 've seen her in . Not a very memorable film or one that I would recommend to anyone but horror completists .
An art house maven 's dream . Overrated , overpraised , overdone ; a pretentious melange that not only did not deserve Best Picture of 1951 on its own merits , it was dwarfed by the competition from the start . Place in the Sun , Detective Story , Streetcar Named Desire , Abbott and Costello Meet the Invisible Man ; you name it , if it came out in '51 , it 's better than this arthouse crapola . The closing ballet is claptrap for the intellectual crowd , out of place and in the wrong movie . Few actors in their time were less capable ( at acting ) or less charismatic than Kelly and Caron . My # 12 Worst of '51 ( I saw 201 movies ) , and among the 5 worst Best Picture Oscar winners .
this movie is , despite its `` independent '' status , a stupid hollywood version of a nauseating mother-daughter relationship . it wasnt that bad at first , but somewhere during the course of the movie -- around the time that the daughter goes out with that guy , i think -- it turns into a cheesey mother-daughter bonding movie . im sorry , but i dont know of any mothers who have that kind of relationship with their daughter ... its probably better that way , though .
Whoa nelly ! I 've heard a ton of mixed reviews for this ... but one of my go to hardcore horror reviewers really found it to be disappointing . Man was he right on the nose ! This movie was acted by pure amateurs . They HAD to have done one take , maybe two on each scene , the movie seemed soooo rushed . The script was also poor ... .they had lines that tried to be unique but failed . Miserably . `` Get your meathooks off of me ! '' Oh man , I hate it when movies try to do that . It happens all the time with comedies ... but , with a horror movie and with below average actors ... .the results are incredibly pathetic . The lines and scenarios were all very predictable . But what made me feel so negative towards this movie was , again , the damn acting . It was awful . Besides by the little Asian guy who worked the booth . I thought he was great . The movie is about 5 stupid dumbsh ! t tourist who are on a vacation in Asia . They end up at the wrong place and fall into the hands of a mafia run sex/slaughterhouse . Sounds like a cool story . But watching someone with a bad case of diarrhea is probably more fun and intense to watch . The only reason this is considered horror is because of the killing . There was n't a trace of suspense . I like many other horror fans were dying to get their bloody little mitts on this . But unfortunately with a HUGE capital U , the movie was incredibly disappointing . I did enjoy the ankle break and the blood effects . The flabby chicks were also so so . Everything about this movie screams amateur . This is Ryan Nicholson 's first feature length , and for the most part he failed . There 's no denying he has a sick sense of humor and taste for horror . I pray his next movie does n't play out like another B horror flick ... unless he tells us that 's what it 's gon na be . Even after this disappointment I 'm willing to give Ryan another shot . From what I 've seen of him , he 's a true , dedicated man to the genre . Good luck next time , because this was bad news .
I 've seen ( far too ) many flicks from this company - this one is about middle of the pack . One the good side , its a bit more stylized and under control than some of their fare - less of the sophomoric attempts at humor and more adherence to story ( for what its worth ) . Many of their titles , like Sexy Sixth Sense , are buried by baaaad performances and an amateurish sensibility . On the other side , I found the simulated sex scenes not as hot as some of their other flicks ( like Vampire Vixens , Gladiator Eroticus , Spiderbabe or Mistress Frankenstein ) . Misty Mundae is always a 10 on the peter meter , as is Darian Caine . I found Barbara Joyce hot in a school-marm kinda way , and Ruby LaRocca a sexy little hottie . Watch this with the remote firmly in your ( free ) hand , on a night when you need a break from porn . Do n't waste your time wanting to check the story - you 've got better things to do w/ your life . It is not a movie , it 's pure T & A , but not bad by that standard .
This is an interesting left turn for Reel 13 Indies . TWO HARBORS is a B & W 75 minute film from Minnesota that features non-actors and is about two people finding a connection through a search for alien life . I applaud the boldness of the Reel 13 programmers of thinking out-of-the-box when selecting this film . I just wish they had picked a stronger film to be bold with . As a matter of fact , I wonder if the choice had more to do with the uniqueness of the film than with the actual quality of the film itself ( Not that TWO HARBORS is completely without merit , but I 'll get to that a little later ) . As is common with independent films , TWO HARBORS is limited in terms of location . There are only two real locations – a large junk dealership market and a very teeny trailer , which is the home of the middle-aged main character , Vic , played by Alex Cole . Writer/director James Vculek uses the market setting to provide exposition about Vic , who is one of the dealers there . He has various people walk up to Vic and start very long conversations that provides us with just two pieces of information – Vic sells space toys ( he prefers to call them `` outer space action figures '' ) and he is a caustic asshole . This is emblematic of one of the two key problems with TWO HARBORS - all the chatting . I 've said it before and I 'll say it again – we are dealing with a visual medium and filmmakers need to work harder to tell their stories visually . There are exceptions , of course , but generally , endless patter is not so engaging on film – particularly if the dialogue is being used as exposition . Pretty much all the conversations in the film are long and unnecessarily verbose . A notable example would be a few scenes which feature Vic trying to play himself off as a Boy Scout leader in order to get a discount at a store . He argues with the clerk back and forth and these scenes do n't even advance the plot one iota . This is the kind of thing that makes even a 75 minute film feel long . The other problem with TWO HARBORS is the acting . I may be a bit of a curmudgeon when it comes to performance in film , but I really do n't feel like there 's a good excuse for not having good actors in your films . There are plenty of good actors out there , many of which willing to work on low-budget projects – even in Minnesota . Many filmmakers eschew the importance of acting ability as being secondary to their visuals , but that is naïve . In narrative film-making , next to the story , nothing is more important than the acting/performances . If you do n't believe the people enacting your story , your audience is lost . Originally , I thought Vculek was using non-actors , but as the film went on , I decided that they were probably community theater-type actors . It was n't that they were uncomfortable on camera . It 's that they were overly theatrical ( i.e . big ) . Granted , the best of the actors were the two leads – Cole and Catherine E. Johnson as Cassie , a lonely young girl that gets caught up in Vic 's extra-terrestrial hunt . They seemed to have the most training , but they were still a little rough around the edges . The eccentricities they displayed seemed to be surface only - not coming from a real , organic place within . Ms. Johnson , in particular , is an interesting case . She definitely has a presence – a Midwestern charm about her , but that charisma belies the multitude of issues her character is supposed to have . She struggles to portray the idiosyncrasies that stem from a supposed life of solitude and ( slave ? ) labor , relying on stock gestures like eye rolls , lip biting and stammering to suggest her discomfort with the outside world . I mentioned in the first paragraph that TWO HARBORS is not completely without merit and here 's what I mean . Without giving too much away , there is a fade to white an hour into the film . After that , the story takes a stunning turn , which allows the last fifteen minutes to be evocative and downright powerful – it 's like a sucker punch to the gut , but in a good way . It 's almost a huge relief to feel something after so long with these characters . The last five minutes of the film do n't have any dialogue at all and the result is the best part of the film – subtle , detailed ( Cole does his best work of the film ) and most importantly , cinematic . Then , with the closing credits comes the most staggering revelation of all – that it 's based on a true story , which got me to thinking . With all the dialogue , the minimal locations and the lack of cinematic qualities , it occurred to me that with two kick ass actors and a tightening re-write , TWO HARBORS might make a really kick-ass stage play – maybe even a one-act . If there are any bold theater producers out there reading this , I definitely recommend seeing if you can get a hold of the film and contact the filmmaker , Reel 13 or whomever . There might be something to this story after all ( For more information on this or any other Reel 13 film , check out their website at www.reel13.org )
I was hoping for some sort of in-depth background information on the Apollo 11 mission and what I got was some decent interview material with Buzz Aldrin Gene Krantz and other people involved in the mission , linked by over-hyped disaster-predicting sensationalising voice-over in the worst tradition of TV production . If you could cut out the voice-over and change the spin of the program to a positive testament of how people can overcome setbacks to achieve a goal out of the ordinary then this could 've been great - but I feel I 've wasted about 45 minutes of my life whilst watching a 60 minute programme . I want those minutes back .
NOTHING in this movie is funny . I thought the premise , giving a human the libido of a randy ram , was interesting and should provide for some laughs . WRONG ! There is simply nothing funny about the movie . For example , the main character making a pass at a goat in heat in the middle of a farmer 's yard is not funny , it borders on obscenity . They are toying around with bestiality in this film on one level , and it just aint funny . We all know that dogs will eat anything , anywhere , anytime . The main character doing this with everything , everywhere , everytime is also not funny . It becomes a cliche . Rob Schneider is , I guess , acceptable in the role . By this , I mean that he 's not a bad actor , but with rotten material it 's difficult to comment on quality . However , Coleen Haskell , the other half of the HUMAN-romantic leads ( does one count the number of animals that the main character has interest in as romantic leads too ? ) , seems embarrassed by the whole thing , as well she should be . She seems to be acting in some kind of vacuum , detached from all the other actors in the movie . See this film only if you wish to be bored by tasteless , dull , repetitive material .
Hanna-Barbera sucks the life out of another famous property . The violence is watered down , the stories are formulaic , the animation is bad , the music is obnoxious and repetitive , and frankly , the show just is n't funny . At the time , H-B put every one of its series through the same clichéd situations , regardless if it fit the world of the cartoon or not . Thus , Popeye and Bluto appear in a recurring segment as cavemen ( `` Hey ! Popeye is popular , and the Flinstones are popular . Put 'em together , and you ca n't miss ! '' ) . Also , in an apparent ripoff of `` Private Benjamin , '' Olive Oyl and the Goon have a regular segment that features them as new army recruits . Seriously ! Why ? Adding to the annoyance factor are the public service announcements in every episode ( standard practice at the time for cartoons , but still annoying ) . Popeye lectures his nephews on crossing the street safely , recycling , and - are you ready for this ? - the dangers of smoking ! ( I swear I 'm not making that up . ) The only charm remaining from the original cartoons is that Jack Mercer , the voice of Popeye from the early days , continues the role here . Worth checking out once just to get a new appreciation for the old Fleischer shorts . Otherwise , avoid at all costs .
While others may contend that by viewing other works by Bilal , one will better appreciate this movie , it does fail in one major way . It does not stand on its own . The plot is a mishmash that is confuses symbolism with substance . Here 's an idea start with a definite story . Then craft symbolism around it . We start with two different narratives , this female that is somehow turning human , a `` god '' that is for some reason being judged , but getting one last fling on Earth , and this mysterious John character who seems to be developing some sort of `` resort '' just beyond the bounds of the city . Why ? None of these questions are answered . But do we care , no . There is no development to want us to empathize with any character in the story , the closest we get Jill and even then the development is spotty at best . Unfortunately the movie gets caught up in the the whole visually impressive ( which it is , ) but at the expense of motivic development . I would love to see this rewritten by someone who could distance themselves from the material a bit and not have to feel that every image has to be in the picture .
If this is supposed to be the black experience , let me out at either the front or back door . A mama 's boy one day sees 2 young hoods walk by and from then on it 's all down hill for him . Angela Bassett , the one shining grace in this film , plays his over protective , religious mother . Despite her anger at how his life has turned , by the middle of the picture , she really decides to accept this . She allows his friends to come in and suddenly it 's all right to use the profanity as long as it 's not in front of the children . This is a sad state of affairs regarding gangster rap . You knew where this film was heading . I literally laughed out loud when at the end , when Bassett is accompanying her son 's body for burial , she states that while his life had been cut short at age 24 , he had become a man . What man ? He had been a convicted criminal , wrote the most atrocious rap music with constant vulgarity , and scorned society . That scene in the classroom where he tells a teacher that as a sanitation worker , he will earn more than the teacher is a perfect example of what goes on in our schools . The complete and utter lack of respect for the teacher . The east coast , west coast gang rap rivalry is never fully explained . All we see are guns blazing . A terrible picture doing nothing to prevent gang violence . What horrible role models are these rap singers and their foul music . The African American community should take umbrage at their very being . Who was this classless fat slob who portrayed Biggie ? He made Rerun from the old television show look thin by comparison . I know it was the streets of Bedford Stuyvesant that changed this chubby little boy into the vulgar monster that he was . What a sorry state of affairs when this is called motion picture entertainment .
I have not seen many low budget films i must admit , but this is the worst movie ever probably , the main character the old man talked like , he had a lobotomy and lost the power to speak more than one word every 5 seconds , a 5 year old could act better . The story had the most awful plot , and well the army guy had put what he thought was army like and then just went over the top , i only watched it to laugh at how bad it was , and hoped it was leading onto the real movie . I cant believe it was under the 2 night rental thing at blockbusters , instead of a please take this for free and get it out of our sight . I think there was one semi decent actor other than the woman , i think the only thing OK with the budget was the make up , but they show every important scene of the film in the beginning music bit . Awful simply awful .
When I was a teen-ager seeing this film for the first time , I thought it was one of the best movies ever made . Of course , the reason for that is Bo Derek and her various states of undress in this film . However , now that I 'm older , I can honestly say that this film is awful . Mind you , Bo Derek is absolutely incredibly beautiful , and she and husband-director John Derek make sure you see plenty of her . But when you take that aspect out of the film , it becomes one big dull ride . And Tarzan , well , he 's all muscular like you think he should be , but when he sees Jane ( that 's Bo , of course ) for the first time , he does n't know what to think . This despite the fact that Bo is wearing a wet see-thru shirt , with her breast prominently displayed . Tarzan would be the only primitive man on the planet who would have that problem . If you are looking for a movie to slobber over a beautiful naked body , then this might fill the ticket . If you are looking for a thoughtful , entertaining and worth-while film , go elsewhere ... almost anywhere else at that ! ! !
Although this is `` better '' than the first Mulva ( which does n't say much anyways , I would rather watch paint dry ) it still sucks . Do yourself a favor and avoid anything from these Low Budget Pictures guys . I was suckered into buying a few dvds to support some indy filmmakers and boy did I regret it . Some have n't even been officially `` released '' yet ( not bootlegs-bought from the filmmakers themselves ) and I ca n't even list how bad they all are . Avoid anything with Teen Ape or Bonejack in them as they do pop up in other small indy films that they are friends with . If you are friends of these guys , chances are you were in their movies and had fun making them . But for those that had to watch them ? No way . Bad video , bad audio , bad acting , bad plot ... etc etc . These are n't even funny . I gave this one a 2 only because Debbie Rochon is in it and that is about it . Maybe it does n't even deserve the 2 . About a 1 1/16th star to show it was slightly better than the first ( which I wish I could have rated in the negatives ) . If you want a decent no budget film , go pick up something from LBP 's `` friends '' over at Freak Productions like Marty Jenkins or even Raising the Stakes . Those are actually decent .
Laid up and drugged out , as a kidney stone wended its merry way through my scarred urinary tract , with absolutely nothing better to do than let the painkillers swoon me into semi-oblivion , I happened to catch this movie on cable . I would n't want anyone to think that I paid to view it in a cinema , or rented it , or – heaven forfend ! – that I watched it STRAIGHT . Having played this sensationally gruesome video game and avidly trod the doomed rooms and dread passageways of The House , battling Chariot ( Type 27 ) , The Hanged Man ( Type 041 ) , and other impossible sentinels , my curiosity was piqued as to how the game would transfer to the movie screen . It does n't . The banal plot revolves around a group of `` crazy kids '' – a la Scooby Doo – attending a remote island for a world-shaking `` rave '' – whatever that is . ( You kids today with your hula-hoops and your mini-skirts and your Pat Boone ) After bribing a boat captain thousands in cash to ferry them there ( a stupidity which begs its own network of rhetoric ) , they find the `` rave '' deserted . Passing mention is made of a `` house '' – presumably the titular House Of The Dead – but most of the action takes place on fake outdoor sets and other locales divorced from any semblance of haunted residence . A fallen video camera acts as flashback filler , showing the island in the throes of a – party ? ! Is that it ? Oh , so this `` rave '' thingy is just a `` party '' ? In the grand tradition of re-euphemizing `` used cars '' as `` pre-owned '' , or `` shell shock '' as `` post-traumatic stress disorder '' , the word `` party '' is now too square for you drug-addled , silicone-implanted , metrosexual jagoffs ? It is learned that the party was broken up by rampaging zombies . Intelligent thought stops here I do n't think the pinheads who call themselves screenwriters and directors understand the mythos behind zombie re-animation . Zombies ca n't die – they 're already UN-DEAD . They do not bleed , they know no pain . Unless their bodies are completely annihilated , they will continue being animated . At least , that 's what my Jamaican witch priestess tells me . Which means that a .45 shot into their `` hearts '' is not going to stop them , nor will a machete to the torso . And a shotgun blast to the chest will certainly NOT bring forth gouts of blood . At least in the video game 's logic , the shooter pumps so many rounds into each monster that it is completely decimated , leaving a fetid mush that can not re-animate itself . Yet each actor-slash-model gets their Matrix-circular-camera moment , slaying zombies on all fronts with single bullets and karate chops to the sternum . Seriously , these zombies are more ineffective than the Stormtroopers from `` Return Of The Jedi '' , who get knocked out when Ewoks trip them . I suppose the film 's writer , Mark Altman , having penned the not-too-shabby `` Free Enterprise '' , felt compelled to insert a Captain Kirk reference , in the character of Jurgen Prochnow , who must have needed milk money desperately to have succumbed to appearing in this aromatic dung-swill . There is also a reference to Prochnow 's primo role in the magnificent `` Das Boot '' , when one of the untrained B-actors mentions that he `` looks like a U-Boat Captain '' . `` . I wonder how many of this movie 's target audience of square-eyed swine picked up on ANY of the snide references to other films , as when Prochnow declares , `` Say hello to my little friend '' , presaging his machine gun moment . Aimed at a demographic who have not the wherewithal to comprehend the Sisyphean futility of the video-game concept ( i.e . the game ends when you die – you can not win ) , this is merely a slasher film for the mindless and mindless at heart . Accordingly , everyone dies in due course , except for a heterosexual pair of Attractive White People . A better use for this film 's scant yet misused budget might have been to send the cast through Acting School , although Ona Grauer 's left breast did a good job , as did her right breast – and those slomo running scenes : priceless ! I especially liked the final scene with Ona trying to act like she 's been stabbed , but looking like she 's just eaten ice cream too fast . Attempting to do something more constructive with my time , I pulled out my Digitally-Restored , 35th Anniversary , Special Edition , Widescreen Anamorphic DVD of `` Manos : The Hands Of Fate . '' Ah , yes ! – the drugs were suitably brain-numbing - now HERE was some quality film-making ( Movie Maniacs , visit : www.poffysmoviemania.com )
this is a piece of s -- t ! ! this looks worse than a made for t.v . movie . and i shutter to think that a sequel was even concieved and the results ... war is prettier than this . jean claude van shame has done it again and he wonders why his career is where it is now . no script , no story and no time should be wasted on this . i mean that . 1 out of 10 is too high , way too high . goldberg should be jackhammered for this . van shame is no actor .
Amelia and Michael are a married couple that are cheating on each other . Amelia has a long-time lover in the hospital and Michael hires a prostitute that does n't satisfy him . The two smolder with their infidelity but manage to connect to each other in the end . There 's not a whole lot to this particular short . The direction is straight-forward and dramatic , which is good , the acting is sincere , but the story leaves a little bit to be desired . Why , exactly , do we care about these two people ? It 's a little hard to see how this story sticks out from any other infidelity story except that it 's much more pared down and does n't search for meaning in it ( a welcoming change of pace if anything ) . I do n't know , it 's possible I do n't connect to these stories because I 've never experienced them . But I have noticed that the blocking in these narratives are typically the same , i.e. , a couple talking together while avoiding eye-contact by pretending to be immersed in magazines , etc . The nice things about short films is that they provide a bit more room for trying something different , and I 'd like to see a different take . -- PolarisDiB
how many minutes does it take to paint a poem ? in this film much too long . it tells the story about the impact of a first love between two schoolboys . the boys ca n't withhold touching each other and making love . after a while one gets distracted by a brief encounter with a sensual guy in the disco and that raises doubt : exploration , fantasy , longing , lust and feelings of loosing grip on your love are themes that are all extensively painted with music , close-ups and silent scenes like telling a poem . but it really takes too long , annoying long , shame , the effort was promising
Oh my GOD . I bought this movie and ... I ... watched ... the ... whole ... thing . . . Okay , it 's going to be alright ... I'l know I 'll be okay in a month or two . Some time soon I hope to be rid of the flash backs . I was going to eat something after the movie but I just ca n't seem to get up the courage to try and hold any food down at the moment . Bad ? Yes bad . Very BAD . BAD BAD BAD BAD BAD . Wait , bad does n't seem to get the message across in quite the right way . Hmm ... There is n't a word to describe just how awful ... . not awful ... Hmm disgustingly horribly casted/acted/filmed/directed/written . Now I do n't know what to do but throw it out . Possibly burn it I would n't want it to end up at the bottom of an architectural dig a thousand years from now . The worst movie ever since `` Hey Happy ''
If you are planning to rent or buy this movie do n't . It 's the worst thing I have ever seen . I would comment on it more but It has been 10 years since I saw it and have blanked all of it from my mind . Save yourself some time money and well being and stay far far away .
I 'm a Black man living in a predominantly Black city . That being said , I have some major misgivings about Tyler Perry 's work . I realize that some people out there feel the need to praise him , because he 's Black and trying to portray a positive image about the culture . But , I honestly do believe that , were Perry White , this film would have had the NAACP , Al Sharpton , and Jessie Jackson all over his ass . I have been forced to watch this movie one whole hell of a lot recently and each repeated viewing makes my blood boil . The characters are poorly written and acted . The jokes are so bad , I have to actually be told something is supposed to be funny . I 'm just going to break this big pile of sh-t down . Madea=suck . The character may have had some appeal , but it does n't anymore . When the only thing she ever seems to do is smack around children and threaten adults with violence she is less than useless . She is unnecessary . The situation with the wife beating fiancé was horsesh-t . If a woman was so scared to death of her husband , why would she try to run away when he 's sleeping in bed . Would n't it have made more sense for her to leave when he was at work . At any rate , the characters in this arc were so annoying and overbearing that I hoped he would throw her off the balcony and was royally ticked when he did n't . Then there are the two lovebirds . A bus driver asks a woman out by harassing her while he 's making his rounds . I could n't believe it . I really could n't believe when she agreed to go out with him even more . But , what takes the cake is that a grown man was reduced to tossing pebbles at a window and passing notes like a ten year old by a castrating mega bitch . I do n't use this term lightly , but that woman only had two modes . Morose victim and psycho momma . No matter which of these two faces she showed , however , there was one constant . The bus driver was n't going to get any . He even married her without sampling the goods -- WTF ! Then there 's the family reunion scene . Here we 've got the mother load which includes implied incestual taboos , grinding for the sake of grinding , shirtless , overly musclebound , b-ball , plus the great taste of Maya Angelou . When those babes dragged their butts outside and called a meeting , was I wrong to wish that the oldest of them was claimed by a heart attack . All this crap is going on at the reunion , in laughably easy to separate groups , and then they ring a bell . When they do , everyone drops what they 're doing and heads on over for a stern talking too , just like a pack of Pavlov 's doggies -- WTF ! ! Then you have the final five minutes of the film . In it we see the abusive fiancé get manhandled by his longtime victim and all around bad actress . There is an impromptu wedding where Black people are dressed like angels and are hanging from the ceiling -- WTF ! ! ! The only reason to watch it this far , besides testing your threshold for pain , is the hope that the second villain of this story gets her ass handed to her as well . Guess what , it does n't happen . Instead , Perry takes the testicularly challenged way out and plays it safe , ending the movie on a tone of forgiveness -- WTF ! ! I 'm pretty sure that , if given a day , I could probably write a doctoral dissertation on all the ways this movie sucks . Do n't even get me started on the rest of Tyler Perry 's films . I 'm just going to say this . In my opinion , as a Black guy , D.W. Griffith 's legacy lives on . The irony is that it is doing so through a Black man who will be praised for doing what Birth of a Nation did , selling us down the river . I only wish Perry 's films were dudes so I could kick them in the nuts . Thanks a lot , dude ! ! What are you going to follow this up with in 2009 , a comedy about the raping and savage beating of slaves in Colonial America ?
As a kid I did think the weapon the murderer wielded was cool , however I was a kid and so I was a bit dumb . Even as a dumb kid though the movies plot was stupid and a bit boring when the killer was not using his light knife to kill people . What amazes me is that the movie has a really solid cast in it . What script did they read when agreeing to be in this movie as it is most assuredly boring and only a means to show off a light saber on a very small scale . The plot at times is incomprehensible and the end is totally chaotic . The whole film seems to rotate around aliens and the one weapon . The plot has two kids and some dude having an alien encounter , flash years later and there seems to be a return as it were in the mix . Dead animals and such to be explored and for some reason the one dude gets the weapon of the aliens and proceeds to use it to go on a very light killing spree . Seriously , you just have to wonder why this movie was made , if you are going to have a killer have some good death scenes , if you are going to have alien encounters show more than a weird light vortex thing , and if you are going to have light sabers then call yourself star wars .
I just finished `` Dark Chamber '' aka `` Under Surveillance '' and I 'm stunned . Stunned , not by the film , but by some of the rave reviews I perused which influenced my watching it . The story was so ravaged by plot-holes and the majority of the acting so flat , categorizing it as a comedy seems appropriate . Seriously , I found myself shaking my head and laughing in bewilderment as I endured this movie . Justin leaves the confines of living at home with a pain killer-addicted mom to go live with his cop father despite Mom 's warnings that Dad is no good . When a young woman is found murdered , Justin becomes suspicious of the tenants who reside in the adjacent apartments . With the help of a couple pals , he installs covert cameras to keep tabs on these folks . As the truth begins to unravel , Justin uncovers an unexpected secret . One positive point is that Felissa Rose is HOT ! I would have generously slapped an extra star or two on here had she peeled down a bit , but no such luck . It would have been the film 's potential saving grace . Eric Conley played Justin very adeptly , I thought , and I would n't be surprised whatsoever to see more of him in the future . The general premise of the film , although plagued by clichés , might possibly have worked had it not been for the ridiculously hollow `` performances '' of key cast members , most notably Alexandra Eitel ( Kayla ) and David H. Rigg ( Justin 's father ) . The horror ! ( pardon the pun ) . I have nothing against low-budget films . Indeed , I believe independent film is our only hope for decent film making in the days to come . I 'll cut low-budget films quite a bit of slack when it comes to special effects , lighting , even musical score and the overall picture quality . I do n't give allowances , however , for stick figure acting and a swiss cheese lover 's script . There are a vast number of competently-made low budget films out there . Sadly , this is n't one of them . I ca n't help but suspect that at least a few of the reviewers who have praised `` Dark Chamber '' here are in some way affiliated with its production .
I was a huge fan of the original cartoon series , and was looking forward to finally seeing Gadget on the big screen -- but I never in my wildest dreams expected something so extremely extremely terrible . The pace was WAY too fast , there was no plot , and 'wowser ! ' - what the hell is that ? ? It was 'WOWSERS ! ! ' .
Hmmm , a sports team is in a plane crash , gets stranded on a snowy mountain , and is faced with the difficult decision to eat the flesh of their dead companions in order to survive . Sound familiar anyone ? I refer to `` Alive '' from 1993 . The only major difference here , of course , is that a big , white , drunken scare crow of a Yeti shows up a few times to drag off the dead . I guess humans taste better than yaks . Stupid : The man in the first scene does not have a reliable firearm when hunting the Yeti , nor does he have a backup . The plane crash is completely bogus . It would have either exploded in the air , exploded when it hit the ground , or become obliterated . The people would not have survived , but hey , it 's sci-fi . Stupid : They survived , and they are cold . It might be a good idea to harness some of the burning debris nearby so as not to freeze to death . Fire being warm as it is ... WTF : The pilot has frost formed all over his face while he 's alive and talking , but oddly enough , no one else does . Stupid : One of the guys tells the others to look for matches and lighters , but there are scattered parts of the plane ON FIRE all around them . Stupid : They find coats and hoodies , and yet there in the cold of the Himalayas , they fail to use the hoods ! Stupid : They 're staring at a pile of sticks when , I reiterate , there are pieces of the plane ALREADY BURNING . Stupid : The Himalayas are notorious for its storms . It would be common sense for them to collect the debris in order to reinforce their structure rather than sitting outside bickering . There are a lot of pine trees around , the branches of which make excellent insulation . WTF : When in doubt , use a dead man 's arm as a splint . WTF : If the one guy knows so much about the hibernation habits of squirrels , bears , and leopards in the Himalayas , then why does n't he know enough to make shelter and set traps right from the start ? Stupid : When attempting to trap wild animals , mindless conversation in the vicinity of said trap always helps . WTF : Do you know how hard it would be to cut a frozen corpse with a shard of glass ? ! WTF : The group was ready and armed to fight the Yeti while the other two were standing there defenseless . The Yeti ripped out the guy 's heart and stomped the girl 's head , and the gang did nothing . There 's love . So two Yetis and a convenient avalanche to bury the evidence forever ... . or so we think . Mwuhahahaa ! The story continues into more idiocy but the most action occurs in the last 15 minutes , as usual . Nice thinking with the javelin and the chain , although this is some ingenuity ( with the magically-appearing chain ) that they lacked in the beginning of the movie when they could n't even make fire despite the fact that it was all around them . As is typical for the Sci-Fi Originals , the loving couple kisses at the end like nothing horrible has just happened to them ( not to mention they ate human flesh and have n't brushed their teeth in several days ) . The very end , however , is quote lame .
It 's hard to believe that this is a sequel to Henry Fool . Hard to believe that the same director and actors were involved in both movies . While Henry Fool is refreshing , witty , comical , Fay Grim is slow , boring , and does n't go anywhere . Where has the wit gone ? I am baffled . It is 10 years since I saw Henry Fool and many of its dialogs and scenes are still vivid in my memory . Fay Grim is painful to watch . This is no fault of the actors , who are good ( Parker Posey ) or great ( Jeff Goldblum ) -- the blame lies entirely with the plot , the dialog , and even some of the filming ( low budget is no excuse ) . A huge disappointment . Sorry I could n't pay attention to the plot , I was so bored , so disappointed ... if you enjoyed this one you might not enjoy Henry Fool so much ... the two movies have absolutely nothing to do with each other ... there is no continuity in the characters ' personalities ... it 's all a fraud to entice fans of Henry Fool to watch the sequel . I 'm switching this off now -- Henry in some sort of jail with a Taliban ? ! ? !
My first exposure to the Templarios & not a good one . I was excited to find this title among the offerings from Anchor Bay Video , which has brought us other cult classics such as `` Spider Baby '' . The print quality is excellent , but this alone ca n't hide the fact that the film is deadly dull . There 's a thrilling opening sequence in which the villagers exact a terrible revenge on the Templars ( & set the whole thing in motion ) , but everything else in the movie is slow , ponderous & , ultimately , unfulfilling . Adding insult to injury : the movie was dubbed , not subtitled , as promised on the video jacket .
Let 's face it , romantic comedies are considered lightweight when compared with dramatic movies ( just look at the Academy Award nominations each year ) . But still , the good ones are truly an art form . Look at `` When Harry Met Sally '' , `` Sleepless In Seattle '' , and classics like `` Roman Holiday '' and `` It Happened One Night '' . I like the good feeling of seeing two people destined to find happiness . This movie attempts to construct something that resembles a romantic comedy . But no one believes the romance between the main characters , and there is nothing funny to make up for that major shortcoming . Modine is way past being a leading man - especially a romantic lead . I 'm sure as Executive Producer , he had the means - but not the good sense - to cast himself . And Gershon ... I see possibilities of some comedic talent , but she had no script and a poorly developed character . And whose idea was the English accent ? Pointless . Others have stated it , but I want to repeat : this story is poorly conceived , poorly executed ; the actors are terribly miscast ; and the characters , well , we just do n't give a hoot about them . An art form this ai n't . Go rent `` Moonstruck '' again .
I 'm not a regular viewer of Springer 's , but I do watch his show in glimpses and I think the show is a fine guilty pleasure and a good way to kill some time . So naturally , I 'm going to watch this movie expecting to see `` Jerry Springer Uncensored . '' First of all , Jerry appears in approximately twenty minutes of the film 's running time . The other hour and twenty minutes is spent building up this pseudo-farce about trailer-trash , jealousy , incest and deception . Jaime Pressley ( who looks hot as HELLLL ) is a trailer-trash slut who sleeps with her stepfather ( a very unusual-looking , chain-smoking , drunken Michael Dudikoff who finally strays from his action hero persona ) . The mom finds out about the affair , they get into a fight , they want to take it to the `` Jerry '' show ( that 's right , no Springer ) . And then we have a parallel story with an African-American couple . They take it to the `` Jerry '' show . The characters collide . Blah , blah , freakin ' blah ! Trash has rarely been this BORRRINGG ! ! ! ! I was wondering why the hell Springer has millions of fans , yet none of them checked out his movie . Well , now it 's TOTALLY obvious ! ! Whether you love him or hate him , you will hate this movie ! How can I explain ? It 's a total mess of a motion picture ( if that 's what you call it ) . It 's so badly edited , with scenes that just do n't connect , and after a period of time the plot virtually disappears and it 's simply all over the map ! Just imagine a predictable soap opera transformed into a comic farce . With seldom laughs . My only positive note is a hot girl-girl scene . That 's as risque as it gets . Do n't get me wrong , the scene 's pretty risque , but if you look at the overall film comparing it to the material on Springer 's program -- this disastrous farce seems extremely sanitized . My score : 3 ( out of 10 )
Definitely the product of young minds , this piece may very well appeal to the 20s crowd , who is still trying to find their place in the world , while obsessing over every neurosis . However , I ca n't imagine that the heavy amount of narcissistic navel-gazing , trite humor , or banal subject matter would be particularly engaging to anyone over 30 . Another problem is that the peripheral characters , whom the filmmakers obviously have nothing but contempt for , are hyped up to such absurd caricatures for comic effect , that they fail to be relatable in any real way . However , one has to give some style points to the filmmakers , who obviously grew up in the video generation , and use every conceivable editing trick in the book in order to spruce up an otherwise non-existent plot . There are 2 points to remember here . First , beware of festival darlings . Second , even though we live in the age of youtube , not everyone 's account of their mundane lives deserves big- screen treatment . But these young filmmakers have every right to make their film , and if others 20-somethings can find something in it to identify with , then all the better . Yet I could not help but think at the end of this film how this latest generation , just now coming of age , will fare in the real world that presents so many challenges and complications . In the age when every child is constantly reassured of how special they are , and that they all deserve their 15 minutes of exposure , resiliency and the ability to deal with adversity does not exactly appear to be this generation 's strong point .
This film is definitely a product of its times and seen in any other context , it is an incredibly stupid movie . Heck , even seen in its proper context , it 's pretty bad ! ! Mostly , this is due to a silly plot and very self-indulgent direction by the famed Italian director , Michelangelo Antonioni . In this case , he tried to meld a very artsy style film with an anti-establishment hippie film and only succeeded in producing a bomb of gargantuan proportions . The film begins with a rap session where a lot of `` with it '' students sit around saying such platitudes as `` power to the people '' and complaining about `` the man '' . Considering most of these hippies have parents sending them to college , it seemed a bit silly for these privileged kids to be complaining so loudly and shouting revolutionary jargon . A bit later , violence between the students and the `` establishment pigs '' breaks out and a cop is killed . Our `` hero '' , Mark , may or may not have done it , but he is forced to run to avoid prosecution . Instead of heading to Mexico or Canada , he does what only a total moron would do -- steals an airplane and flies it to the Mojave Desert ! There , he meets a happen ' chick and they then sit around philosophizing for hours . Then , they have sex in one of the weirder sex scenes in cinema history . As they gyrate about in the dust , suddenly other couples appear from no where and there is a huge orgy scene . While you see a bit of skin ( warranting an R-rating ) , it 's not as explicit as it could have been . In fact , it lasts so long and seems so choreographed that it just boggles the mind . And of course , when they are finished , the many , many other couples vanish into thin air . Oddly , later the couple paint the plane with some help and it looks a lot like a Peter Max creation . Despite improving the look of the plane , the evil cops respond to his returning the plane by shooting the nice revolutionary . When the girl finds out , she goes into a semi-catatonic state and the movie ends with her seemingly imagining the destruction of her own fascist pig parents and all the evil that they stand for ( such as hard work and responsibility ) . Instead of one simple explosion , you see the same enormous house explode about 8 times . Then , inexplicably , you see TVs , refrigerators and other things explode in slow motion . While dumb , it is rather cool to watch -- sort of like when David Letterman blows things up or smashes things on his show . Aside from a dopey plot , the film suffers from a strong need for a single likable character as well as extensive editing . At least 15 minutes could easily be removed to speed things up a bit -- especially since there really is n't all that much plot or dialog . The bottom line is that this is an incredibly dumb film and I was not surprised to see it listed in `` The Fifty Worst Films '' book by Harry Medved . It 's a well deserved addition to this pantheon of crap . For such a famed director to spend so much money to produce such a craptastic film is a crime ! Two final observations . If you like laughing at silly hippie movies , also try watching THE TRIAL OF BILLY JACK . Also , in a case of art imitating life , the lead , Mark Frechette , acted out his character in real life . He died at age 27 in prison a few years after participating in an act of `` revolution '' in which he and some friends robbed a bank and killed an innocent person . Dang hippies ! !
The day has finally come for me to witness the perpetuation of Azumi 's fate as an assassin , fruition of her character and the ultimate attempt to draw me deeper into the world she rampaged through so mercilessly during the first saga . That 's as poetical as I 'll get when talking about Azumi 2 : Death or Love , because when I cringed over the heavy sentimentality of House of Flying Daggers and complained about the credibility of Aya Ueto portraying a blood-driven assassin , after watching Azumi 2 I started to appreciate the previously mentioned shortcomings more than ever before . Not only does the determination of each assassin feels sluggish and uninspiring but also many important elements are omitted from the entire experience . In Azumi 1 we saw the assassins use various stealth tactics ( which is their number one priority ) as well as logic to make easy work of their marks with swift executions and quicker abilities to escape . But I wo n't hold that against this movie too much since the story is slightly tweaked this time around and many more obstacles are planted in Azumi 's way to prevent her from reaching the warlord and displaying any signs of charisma . By the way , Chiaki is foolishly shelved for the most part of the film and is basically playing a toned down version of Go Go , minus the cool weapon and sense of menace . This brings me to the final blow which is the action , simply disguised in the title as the 'Death ' side of the epic . In the first half of the film we see the debut of many promising adversaries with flashy looks and even flashier weapons . To no one 's surprise they meet their end one way or another but the film falls short when each of them start dying too fast and too easily . In Azumi 1 , the young assassins were mostly overpowering the opposition with quick but somewhat satisfying battles and the final showdown between Azumi and Bijomaru in comparison to the fights in Azumi 2 was at least climaxed and worthwhile . Some interesting effects were introduced but they were unable to achieve innovation due to the shortness of each encounter . I am in no way knocking down the conventional style of samurai films with their quick and realistic battles but characters in both Azumi films were so imaginative and straight out of anime that the rules could have been broken and the action should have been further enriched . The romance side of Azumi is there to fill in time between the fight scenes and unfortunately at the end it serves no purpose nor provides a much needed resolution . As a fan with an open mind for wide variety of movies and animation , I wo n't lie and I 'll admit to my neutrality and unimpressiveness towards the first Azumi film , but I 'll step right up and say that after watching Azumi 2 , the original was made to look like a flawless masterpiece . For what it 's worth , Azumi 2 : Death or Love could have gone straight to video , with its invisibly richer budget and a failed potential to add or even expand on the bumpy journey of desperate assassins , doing their best to restore the peace , with an unwavering courage to die trying .
Hmm , Hip Hop music to a period western . Modern phrases like `` cool '' and too many others to keep track of . `` The sistahs are in tha house '' ! ? French manicured nails on hard riding girls . Microphone packs CLEARLY visible on Li'l Kim 's back . I just ca n't go on with the litany of errors made by the director and editors . The acting is n't as bad as I 've ever seen . The women did well enough with a poor script . It was weird hearing Louis Mandylor speaking in his native accent . The girls are beautiful . The costumes fabulous albeit completely incorrect . I just ca n't believe they would dumb down what could have been a great story . I would feel offended to believe that this movie was loaded with such trappings that it would play well in the inner city .
Before I start , let me say that my experience of this movie might have been influenced by the dubbing , which I gather from other comments was the original one which is considered inferior by some . So , it is entirely possible that subtitles or the apparently new DVD version would make a difference . I have also not read the corresponding book ; I 'm only familiar with one other Japanese manga and might be lacking cultural context . Potential minor spoilers ahead . I usually like darkly tinged science fiction stories ( the likes of Blade Runner , 12 Monkeys , etc . ) , but I did not enjoy this movie at all . While it started out mildly intriguing , it became tedious by the time it was only half-way finished . There are all sorts of problems ; let 's start with what is probably the most severe : the dialogue . The characters seem unable to formulate complete sentences ; if they are n't shouting each other 's names for the n-th time , they are usually grunting monosyllables ( `` Kanedaaa ! `` , `` Tetsuoooo ! `` , `` Huh ? `` , `` Grrr '' , etc. ) . This leaves most of the characters entirely underdeveloped and two-dimensional . It does n't help in the least that a lot of them get only a few minutes of screen time without anything interesting to say that would develop them away from the stereotypes suggested by the visuals . The grunting is augmented by some random pseudo-philosophical technobabble that sounds vague and uninspired even by Star Trek standards . There is nothing deep and meaningful here - it all seems haphazard , thrown together at random from various bits and pieces of stock sci-fi ideas with no coherency whatsoever . What little there is of an intelligible plot is no more than an excuse to begin the overlong final sequence which consists of escalating scenes of mayhem and destruction . Not that there 's anything wrong with a nice bit of mayhem and destruction , of course ; but in this case you 'll find yourself asking `` what 's the point of it all , and how long until it 's over '' . Character development in the last 30 minutes or so consists of little more than Tetsuo turning into Pizza the Hutt for no readily apparent reason . The ending resembles the one in 2001 - a bizarre string of images that , far from resolving or explaining anything , leave the viewer feeling he 's just been looking into a kaleidoscope for two hours . I 'm sure some will claim that this sort of thing is art ; but to me it was just a lot of admittedly imaginative use of colour and shapes . ( Some of the music was also quite interesting ) . Unfortunately it 's all style and no substance . Tired of Disney ? Want to watch animated movies dealing intelligently with `` adult '' themes ? I 'm sad to say you 're more likely to find that sort of thing in `` South Park '' .
This movie was made by a bunch of white guys that went to school together . Well there 's nothing wrong with that , except it looks like it was made by a bunch of white guys that went to school together . 90 percent of the cast are white males about same age . It 's almost like watching a bunch of guys at boys camp who turned the camera on themselves . The movie has no plot . It simply repeats the same action of blood bath after blood bath . There are some funny scenes and comedic bits . But they do n't redeem the flat monotony . The graphic cartoon scenes are used to cover the stuff that was obviously beyond their budget or resources to do , and not done very well at that . Anything that ca n't be done with white guys running around on the beach covered in blood is done with cheap animation . I went to see this film after seeing the trailer , which makes it look like a Tarrentino piece . Well , the trailer scenes are as good as they ever get . Ther rest of it just repeats the same kind of mundane , inane comedy . It works at times , but it gets boring after the same stuff comes at you over and over . It 's more like a string of Satuday Night Live skits than a movie . It 's a hit-you-over-the-head-with-it kind of comedy . I can see where the story idea is intriguing . But , in this film post apocalyptic America is much like Medevil England . In fact Wheatlry says the story ideas came from that era . He plans to make a Part 2 . I guess he thinks he 's Tarrentino or maybe doing a parody thing . At the opening in LA , Wheatley mentioned he will bring back pretty much the same cast in part 2 . He was asked if he might consider a more diverse cast in the next one , to which he replied , well yea , sure .
'Baptists at Our Barbecue ' is the best film ever made . Now , that I got your attention with that horribly inaccurate statement that should be a hanging offense if spoken , let me begin my short overview of this tacky , offensive , pretentious and boring hunk of junk I guess you could consider a movie . First of all , the low budget of this stinker is totally obvious based on the very poor and inexperienced direction of Christian Vuissa , and the tacky , overly preachy , whiny and stilted screenplay by F. Mathew Smith . I really despise the fact that it sends a very pro-Mormon , and sort of anti-every other religion message . Yes , the story is about a small town half full with Mormons and half full with Baptists . It shows all the main and role-model characters being Mormon , and being so nice and perfect , yet they are being picked on by the evil , conniving and very judgmental Baptists . It shows how beautiful Mormons are and how cold-hearted and ignorant Baptists are , instead of showing a little solidarity like would be appropriate and realistic . I 'm a part of neither religion ( I 'm actually an atheist ) , but this offended me , along with another countless amount of Baptists most likely . It shows the Baptists as being very unopened and unwelcoming to the Mormons , and the Mormons being very accepting , when again , in reality there is a mutual like/dislike between them . Sorry , I did n't mean to go off on a rant . Another aspect of 'Baptists at Our Barbecue ' I did n't much care for , was the acting . The performances are very amateurish and unnatural , especially from the female lead Heather Beers . Miss Beers stumbles her way through her part without any passion or feeling for her role , and I was n't too much impressed with Dan Merkley , who 's the main character in this lackluster of a motion picture , but I have to say he 's way more talented or shows more talent in this film then Heather Beers . Whoever played the town sheriff was awful also . Although there is maybe a tiny laugh deep within the film , it is full of clichés . For example , the main character , Tartan ( Merkley ) , finds solace with a Native American who always gives him the best advice on things relating to a tribal way of life - how cliché is that ? To make the situation even more of a pathetic cliché , Tartan buys the poor , lonely heathen a puppy dog . Ugghhh ! If you want my advice , stay as far away from 'Baptists at Our Barbecue ' as you can . I saw it on the shelf and thought it would be a cute and interesting little indie about religion . All I got was a , well , piece of crap . Grade : D- my ratings guide - A+ ( absolutley flawless ) ; A ( a masterpiece , near-perfect ) ; A- ( excellent ) ; B+ ( great ) ; B ( very good ) ; B- ( good ) ; C+ ( a mixed bag ) ; C ( average ) ; C- ( disappointing ) ; D+ ( bad ) ; D ( very bad ) ; D- ( absolutley horrendous ) ; F ( not one redeeming quality in this hunk of Hollywood feces ) .
A battleship is sinking ... Its survivors , hanging onto a nearby liferaft , sit there doing nothing while we go into each of their minds for a series of long flashbacks . Even though Noel Coward 's name is the only one that you notice during the credits , everything that 's cinematic in it is because of Lean . And on technical terms , its very good . David Lean just KNEW films from the get-go . There are many moments where Coward 's studied dialogue takes a second seat and Lean 's visual sense takes centre stage . Try the soldiers getting off the ship near the end , and that whole scene ; the tracking shot towards the hymn singing , the scene where we 're inside a house that gets bombed . Noel Coward is one of the worst actors i 've ever seen . He 's totally wooden , not displaying emotion , character or humanity . You can see it in his eyes that he 's not really listening to what the other performer is saying , he 's just waiting for them to finish so he can rush out his own line . 7/10 . Its episodic , a bit repetitive , and the flashbacks overwhelm the story : there 's no central story that they advance , just give general insights into the characters . Still , its an interesting film worth a watch - and a good debut for Lean . Its not a very deep or penetrating film , and its definitely a propaganda film , but its also a showcase for Lean 's editing skills - its all about how the pieces are put together .
I 've been reading posts here concerning Wonder Woman 's costume for this TV movie . It should be pointed out at the time the movie was made , she was n't wearing her traditional outfit . The producers were actually sticking to the comic book writer 's conception of WW for the early seventies . As for the movie itself , I have to agree with many of the other posters here . Snoozefest ! I was a kid when it appeared on ABC in 1974 , so I was at the right age to have appreciated a movie about a comic book hero . Yet I was so `` engrossed '' with the plot , I stopped watching it three quarters into the movie . Of course , I was n't at the right age to appreciate Cathy Lee ! : - )
There are bad movies , terrible movies even boring movies ... I can watch most and put up until the end , not this time . Avoid this like the plague , annoying music throughout , terrible editing , no comedy , its tackier than a novelty mug ... My missus wanted to watch this thinking it would be Legally Blonde material or something kind of watchable , but never better than average , chick flick . Its the first time she was begging me to push the stop button . The Girls , well , they were not great to start with ( Denise done OK in Starship Troopers and Wild things ) but you have sank to the gravel . I feel like a mug having spent 30 minutes on this ... Pamela Anderson is almost unrecognisable after much construction work to her face . Please take my advice if you want to avoid wasting valuable oxygen and brain cells ranting at the utter mince that is on your screen .
This is not the worst film I have seen of Peter Greenaway but it is close . That dishonor goes to the even worse Pillow Book . This director 's films of 3 I have seen I find them all to be miserable . Like The Cook ... , whatever positive cinematic flourishes he displays , are totally unredeemed by the repugnancy of his material and overall presentation .
Bad Actors , bad filming , choppy dialog , shallow characters , but then again it was a bad premise in the first place . Basically , an 11 year old who is bullied because he has very little money is given a blank check by a moronic criminal . Of course , the 11 year old happens to possess enough technology and intelligence to purchase a house , cash a check for 1,000,000 dollars , and even foil three bumbling idiots , reminiscent of the three stooges . Preston Blake is an annoying , obnoxious , boy , who decides that , when written a blank check by a complete stranger , he will take advantage of the situation as best as he can . In other words , he wanders into a bank , hands a teller a check he makes in his printer , and miraculously walks out with a million bucks in cash . Preston is also apparently capable of reaching incredible speeds on his bicycle , due to the fact that a man driving a Jaguar after Preston and his 10-speed could not catch him , even when Preston jumped a row of cars . Of course , with every hokey adventure movie , there has to be hot heroine . In this case our hot heroine is a child molesting FBI agent who dates the eleven year old Preston , and promises another date when he turns 17 . However , the absolute worst aspect of this film was not its casting , nor its sloppy dialog , such as `` The only other way I could think of skinning a cat is to stick a hose up it 's butt and then pick up the fur '' . It was , rather , the entire fact that nobody in the entire film seemed to realize that the FBI does not give a damn about random people . What I have failed to explain is that Preston uses the alias `` Macintosh '' to masquerade as an entrepreneur of sorts . Of course , the FBI finds this intriguing and sends our young heroine after Preston , who uses his 11-year old wit to first scream when lobsters fall on his face , then treat her to hamburgers , finishing with a ridiculous romp through a cemented area where water jettison 's from the ground . Our heroine fails to realize during this whole adventure that the criminal the FBI is pursuing is slipping and sliding right behind the two , as they make their way to Preston 's limousine , complete with a 1-dimensional driver who never fails to provide cheap , 3rd rate laughs that the whole family can choke on . Overall : 1/10 is incredibly gracious for this film . I do n't see how it only has a 4.4/10 .
Let 's be honest . As a film school project , made without budget and `` real '' actors , this is a passably interesting film . As something to be released on DVD for an innocent viewer , it 's a very poorly produced product . If I would be idly changing channels and happened to catch this film accidentally , it would probably arrest my eye and attention for a while . As a person who bought this DVD under the impression that I would be getting a proper cinematic product , i.e . a film , I feel deeply disappointed . It 's a videotaped TV play , something along the line of old sixties serials , but without that certain charm . Aside from the leading man Mr Redfield ( who also is the director ) , the other actors seem to be either chaps from the campus ( a bit too old for that actually ) , or members of the director 's household , who appear before the camera without any help from not only the acting couches , but also the make-up artist or hairdresser ( a bonnet over outgrown permanent bangs or a top hat over mullet is a very long way from creating 1840s ) . It 's all shot using a motionless mounted camera in a small , bare studio , sometimes using blue screen for outdoors backgrounds . Synthesizer generated uninspired score of lame `` period '' inspired romantic karaoke insults the viewers ears on more than one occasion . The film attempts to be `` dreamlike '' , whereas in fact it 's merely conceptionless collage of those shots that made it to the editing ( and believe me , the standards were n't too high to start with ) . There are interesting dialogs every now and then , but overall it 's pretty lame and two-dimensional production in more than one way with no flashes of genius from either the director or any members of the crew . That 's how `` artsy '' films attempted to look in the 80s . Mr Redfield does a much better job as an actor than the director .
So , back when Herbie made his first appearance , I was perfectly happy watching Dean Jones mug away . I only wanted to be entertained for a few hours and eat overly buttered popcorn . Now , unfortunately , I have expectations of a riveting/delightful story whenever I watch a movie , if I 'm not on some sort of medication . And this is another good movie for the medicated . There are no major laughs , no complex plot lines , no difficult twists . Herbie Fully Loaded is great for the fully loaded . This was the first time I had seen La Lohan on the screen since she swapped places with Jamie Lee Curtis ( I thought she was excellent in that ) , and I ca n't say I was terribly impressed this time around . Aside from her constantly changing and distractingly unnatural hair color , she just did n't ring true as the kid next door who had spent a lifetime hanging around road racers . Her 'need for speed ' was n't portrayed consistently in the film - perhaps it was elsewhere - she looked older than her part , and seemed to always be looking for something ( a party ? designer togs ? new place to spend money ? ) off set . I could n't see any chemistry with Justin Long ; that romance seemed obligatory at best . The only time Lindsay appeared engaged was when she was interacting with Matt Dillon , who I thought was appropriately over the top as Evil Bad Guy Trip Murphy . It was great to see Herbie again , and I loved the movie intro with material from the old movies . If Disney had popped out with some Car 53 jewelry , I might have worn some just to be loyal . His new feature ( ? ) was a little inconsistent ( does he channel the thoughts of his driver ? Does he now skateboard ? ) but whatever . We all knew how it was going to end , but I do wish he had ended up with someone a little less dopey than Maggie . And my head still hurts from that lesson Maggie and we viewers had hammered home . What would have made the movie worthwhile ? Have the old Herbie in a real story with a real plot - at the very least , Herbie 's as good as Lassie - but clearly that 's asking too much . Why is it that Disney always goes back to the same well as `` Herbie Goes Bananas '' and `` the Computer That Wore Tennis Shoes '' when it comes to innovation ? I 'm sure this was a great movie for kids and those with no expectations . For the rest of us ... .it 's for when you have the 'flu and just ca n't take the suspense of Rear Window .
Sometimes a premise starts out good , but because of the demands of having to go overboard to meet the demands of an audience suffering from attention-deficit disorder , it devolves into an incongruous mess . And for three well-respected actors who have made better work before and after , this is a mortal shame . So let 's see . Premise : a loving couple who lives in a beautiful home is threatened by a bad cop . Interesting to say the least . Make the encroaching cop a little disturbing , why not . It was well done in THE HAND WHO ROCKS THE CRADLE and SINGLE WHITE FEMALE , and it 's a proved ticket to a successful thriller . Now herein lies the dilemma . Create a disturbing story that actually bothers to bring some true menace into its main characters while never going so far as to look ridiculous , or throw any semblance to reality , amp up the shock factor , and make this cop so extreme -- an ultra bad variation of every other super-villain that 's hit cinemas since the silent age . The producers , and directors , chose the latter . Thus is the resulting film -- badly made , with actors trying their darnedest to make heads or tails in roles that they 've essayed before , and nothing much amounting to even less .
First be warned that I saw this movie on TV and with dubbed English - which may have entirely spoiled the atmosphere . However , I 'll rate what I saw and hope that will steer people away from that version . I found this movie excruciatingly dull . All the movie 's atmosphere is lost with dubbing leaving the slow frustration of a stalker movie . I 'm sorry , but the worst movie sin in my book is to be slow except when the movie about philosophy . I did n't see any deep philosophical meaning in this movie . Maybe I missed something , but I have to tell it like I see it . I rated it a `` 1 '' . What can I say , U.S. oriented tastes , maybe .
The funniest scene of this movie is probably when our saviours get their medals and plaques and whatnot . So the basic idea is , the police outnumbers these gangsters by like a million to one , but they 're powerless because the villains ' guns are just a bit bigger . I guess police ammo just kinda bounces of . They decided to shoot this movie in documentary style with fake interviews and all and seriously , what is wrong with these guys ? They 're talking like they were armed with rolled-up newspapers . Okay I admit , it 's probably still dangerous to be in the line of the fire , even when the situation is so much to your advantage , but do n't go nuts . And why the hell did it take 44 minutes to solve everything anyway ? I 'd say that 's a very long time when you have them surrounded and you 're allowed to shoot . They 're like ten ft. away , they hit absolutely nothing . Then they go and buy bigger guns themselves to increase their heroism . And then yeah , there you have it , one of the cops actually hits someone . Bullet was probably diverted by a lamp post or something . I had a good laugh I guess .
When I had first heard of `` Solar Crisis '' then got a load of the cast , I wondered why I had never heard of a movie with such a big cast before . Then I saw it . Now I know . For a movie that encompasses outer space , the sun , vast deserts and sprawling metropolises , this is an awfully cramped and claustrophobic feature ; it feels like everyone is hunkered close together so the camera wo n't have to pull too far back . And the effects , while good , are pretty underwhelming ; we 're talking about the imminent destruction of the planet Earth if a team of scientists and soldiers can not deflect a deadly solar flare . But other than shouting , sweating and a red glow about everything , there 's no real feel of emergency . Do n't get me started about the cast . What Heston , Palance , Matheson , Boyle , et al are doing in this movie without even bothering to act with any feel for the material is anyone 's guess . Makes you wonder who else 's condos are n't paid for in Hollywood ... . And as far as the end goes ... . Well , let 's just say it 's tense and intriguing but it 's too little too late in an effort like this . If it had kept up that kind of pace all through the film , maybe I would have heard of `` Solar Crisis '' sooner . Two stars . Mostly for lost opportunities and bad career moves . I wonder how Alan Smithee keeps his job doing junk like this ?
This is one of the worst movies I have seen this year . You should not see this movie but if you insist on wasting your time you should stop here , there are SPOILERS . Gray Matters centers on Gray and Sam Baldwin ( Heather Graham and Tom Cavanagh ) . Only Gray and Sam are Brother and Sister ; living together in everyone else 's eyes as man and wife . No sex but just about everything else . Early on , the movie starts with its theme : 'the most absurd thing at the most absurd moment with you guessed it the most absurd reactions ' . Gray and Sam decided to check out the dog park with a borrowed pooch . Rather then push her brother to get the skinny on first woman they see for him , she does it and gets to the nitty-gritty questions too . When she signals her brother to come over they start a 3-way date . Charlie ( Bridget Moynahan ) is the girl of THEIR dreams , like all the right things etc Sam final hits Gray over the head and the couple finishes the date with a marriage proposal ! That Charlie accepts ! In one week Charlie , Gray and Sam are to be in Vegas . In the next week Charlie and Gray are off shopping for wedding gowns ( apparently Charlie has an off-the-rack figure ) . Gray is slurping an iced latte when Charlie suggests Gray tries on some gowns as well and picks out a $ 10,000 frock for her . While Charlie is zipping her in this 'down-payment-on-a-house ' gown Gray continues to slurp on the latte ( I swear it was like a feed bag ) . What should happen but 'woops ! ' latte all over the gown . It is never explained how they got out of Bloomingdale 's bridal salon with out a $ 10,000 mocha colored gown . Back to 'reality ' – Caesar 's palace Las Vegas . They have the 'high roller room ' ( Sam is a resident surgeon and Charlie is an intern zoologist – were do they get all this money ? ) Gray kicks Sam out to the single room down the hall so she and Charlie can have a bachelorette drink-a-thon were , you guessed it - they kiss . Gray remembers everything ; Charlie remembers nada . They make it to wedding chapel and right when the Reverend gets to his line `` If there is anybody is here who has any objection whatsoever to the union of these two lovebirds '' Gray gets the hiccups . Gray excuses herself , for some reason the Reverend must repeat his last line and right on queue again 'hiccups ' . Gray gets back to NY and starts dating any man she meets , literally . And of course one is you guessed it again ! Gay . The other is a jerk and the third is a taxi cab driver ( Alan Cummings ) named Gordy . He is smittened with Gray but the feelings are not returned . They become great friends . This is good because when she comes clean with Sam about the kiss . He blows up and kicks her out of their apartment . When Sam comes to his senses he goes to her office . Gray works at an ad agency . This office is smack in the middle of the twilight zone . It has cameras and microphones in all the conference rooms that broadcast to all computer monitors at the agency . Sam gets Gray in one of the conference rooms for a not-so-private conversation and ends up outing her to the entire office . This is where I doubt that there was a gay man or lesbian on the crew : Gordy comes to her rescue and convinces her to go to a lesbian bar . 'Sorry no men ' says the bouncer . So Gray and Gordy return with Gordy in drag . Bad drag . He was in a sleeveless black satin-like blouse , a string of pearls , and a grandma 's church hat . No lesbian would ever confuse this 'man in a dress ' as a drag queen much less a woman . The bar was also the straight man 's fantasy of what a lesbian bar is : full of Victoria 's Secret models . Everything turns out peachy – she goes home with her firm 's client . Gray happens to be on the woman 's account and finally does more then kiss . For some reason no one tells Charlie anything and she is oblivious through the whole movie of this kiss with Gray , but that is for the sequel .
Curiously , Season 6 of the Columbo series contained only three episodes and there is very little evidence of quality in at least two of the scripts , based on this outing for the `` man-in-the-mac '' and also `` Fade into Murder '' . Furthermore , it is not a coincidence that Peter S. Feibleman penned both the aforementioned scripts ( incidentally he plays the part of the murdered security guard here ) . This adventure is very rarely compelling and many of the performers just look disinterested with the material . The story is rather weakly developed with some protracted periods of boring conversation . Columbo is also shadowed by a colleague here ( similar to `` Last Salute to the Commodore '' ) but the entertainment value is minimal . To add to this , Celeste 's Holm characterisation , which is intended to provide comedy , induces embarrassment rather than laughs . The script wavers off to deal with the family history and the murderess does enough to gift Columbo the case , though there is never a credible discussion relating to the motives of her crime . Ironically , what turns out to be , arguably , Columbo 's worst adventure produces the funniest moment in the series . He quizzes a male hairdresser and has a haircut/manicure at the same time . The next 5 minutes are hilarious - it 's just that Columbo 's hair is so perfectly groomed , then he ca n't afford to pay the bill and then , when he makes enquiries at a jewellers he keeps glancing in the mirror to admire his hairstyle ! Sadly , this is the only decent moment from a script that looks like it has been cobbled together in ten minutes . For Columbo completionists only .
After a series of power-outages on a remote island zoo , genetically engineered sabertooth tigers are on the loose and mauling residents of the island . Man , the sci-fi channel has made some bad `` original '' movies , but I think this might possibly be their worst so far ! This badly written and directed `` Jurassic Park '' rip-off offers all the usual clichés ( mad scientists who thinks people killed by the monsters are `` expendable losses '' , characters walking down long dark hallways alone , brain-dead teen characters who 's only function in the film is to die a horrible death , etc . ) , and , unsurprisingly , no suspense whatsoever . The special effects are atrocious—the puppet heads in close-ups of the title beasties are bad enough , looking like stiff plush dolls , but the CGI—which makes the computer-generated dinosaurs in `` Walking with Dinosaurs '' look life-like by comparison—are just downright awful . There 's some gore , but most of it looks pretty unconvincing . Oh , and the death scene of the scientist at the end is truly one of the worst things I 've seen in years . I could n't even laugh it was so bad ! Do n't waste your time , this one is just downright bad . 2/10 . Oh , and here 's some interesting trivia for you—this film borrowed music cues from the 2003 sci-fi film `` Alien Hunter '' , which was far superior to this piece of crap .
you can be fooled by your first impressions . as in , initial reactions to a movie , for example . as in , the first time i saw this movie i was bedazzled by the idea of it ( first of all , i love black comedies ) . could even - despite being male , myself - empathise with the feisty girls ' fervor to see their husbands deceased without delay . was tripped up by my own face-value ( and , i do mean `` face-value '' ) response to nicolette sheridan and a couple of the other delicious dames in the picture . it just goes to show you that you 've got ta step back from a situation sometimes and see that it 's bad ( and not `` bad good , '' either ) : the reason i 'm giving this movie a `` 4 '' rating is because of ms sheridan and her gams ( the rest of 'er is pretty good , too ) ; but this movie has all the hallmark TV movie characteristics - which means you 'll be disappointed if your a lover of movies made for the big screen . the story contains plot holes you could run a tunnel through - and i 'll generally overlook holes in a plot if the overall thing does it for me ; and i just experienced an incredible letdown the second time i saw it . i do n't think it 's a total waste of time , but ... .
Come on , what is the deal with this show , Power Rangers anyways ? I always felt that the show , which was originally brought over from Japan in a better form , took what was great in Japan , and turned into one of the most ridiculous and pointless excuses in toy merchandising history ! There is absolutely no point with this show whatsoever . The bad haircuts , bad costumes , earrings , etc , all show what was ridiculous back in the 1990s From the two idiots , Bulk and Skull , to the `` duhs '' , of the main cast , Jason , Trini , Tommy , Kimberly , Billy and Zack , I just want to say one thing : GIVE ME A BREAK ! Saban brought this from Japan , and then Disney bought the rights to this show around five years ago . Now the public has to endure reruns of this show on the Disney channel and such . All I can say once again is give me a break !
A really very bad movie , with a very few good moments or qualities . It starts off with pregnant Linda Blair , who runs down a hallways to flee what might be monsters or people with pitchforks , I 'm not sure . She jumps through a window and wakes up , and we see she is very pregnant . The degree to which she is pregnant varies widely throughout the movie . She and an annoying and possibly retarded little boy who I thought was her son travel to an abandoned hotel on an island . Italian horror directors find the most irritating little boys to put in their movies ! On the island already are David Hasselhoff and his German-speaking virgin girlfriend ( you know how Germans are said to love Hasselhoff ... ) . He 's taking photographs , and she 's translating an esoteric German book about witches , I think . Also traveling to the island are an older couple who have purchased it , and a real estate agent , and a woman I thought was their daughter . Evidently she was an architect , and Linda Blair and the boy are the older couple 's children . I guess they all traveled to the island together , but it really seemed like Linda and the boy were apart from the rest of them ( maybe they were filmed separately ) . The hotel seems neat , certainly from the exteriors , but it is n't used to any great effect . An old woman in bad makeup and a black cloak keeps appearing to the boy and chants something in German sometimes , which he eventually records on his Sesame Street tape recorder . People start getting killed , either in their dreams , or sucked into hell or something . Some of these gore scenes are OK , but not enough to recommend the movie . Though the copy I watched stated it is uncut on the box cover , the death of one character whose veins explode really seems to have been cut . Much of the scene is showing another character 's reaction shots , since we 're not seeing anything ourselves . The creepiest scene is one in which a man or demon with a really messy-looking wound of a mouth rapes someone . He looked particularly nasty . There 's a laughably and painfully bad scene in which Linda Blair is possessed . I wish if a horror movie is going to cast her , they would do something original with her role , and let her leave Exorcist behind her ( except for the yearly horror conventions ) . In the weird , largely Italian , tradition of claiming to be a sequel to something it is unrelated to , this is also AKA La Casa 4 and Ghosthouse 2 . That is , it is supposedly a sequel to Casa 3 - Ghosthouse , La ( 1988 ) - it 's not ( that 's also a better movie than this one ) . La Casa 1 and two were The Evil Dead ( 1981 ) and Evil Dead II ( 1987 ) - again unrelated to Witchery and La Casa 3 ( and much better than those ) . There 's also a Casa 5 , La ( 1990 ) AKA House 5 , which seems to want to be a sequel to the fake La Casa series and the series House : House ( 1986 ) House II : The Second Story ( 1987 ) , The Horror Show ( 1989 ) AKA House III , and House IV ( 1992 ) . How 's The Horror Show fit in there ? It does n't really , it claimed to be a sequel , thus requiring the real series entry to renumber itself to cause less ( or more ? ) confusion . Oddly , The Horror Show is also AKA Horror House , and La Casa 5 is also AKA Horror House 2 . Does your head hurt yet ?
I did n't feel as if I 'd been raped like I did with THE ENCHANTED CHRISTMAS , but BELLE 'S MAGICAL WORLD is still the antithesis of BEAUTY AND THE BEAST . Like CHRISTMAS , BMW hates its audience , although not to such an extreme degree . It 's ugly , uncanonical , idiotic , and the writing is horrifically bad.None of the stories work . These are not the characters we loved from BATB at all , they 're a bunch of pod people . I wanted to dissect it , but after a few minutes , I gave up , because no one in their right mind would take this claptrap seriously . What we have here are three stories . `` The Perfect Word '' is an overbearing , ponderous study of forgiveness . `` Fifi 's Folly '' only works if you can accept that Babette 's name is actually Fifi and that she 's a closet James Bond villainess and that Lumiere is an idiot concerning women . `` Broken Wing '' ( or `` Broken Wind '' as I like to call it ) is probably the most heinous of the bunch . Beast hates birds ? Since WHEN ? Do n't watch this crap- every copy of this video deserves to be cremated . BEAUTY AND THE BEAST is still a cinematic classic , a transcendent celebration of love , art , intelligence and the human soul .
I was honestly surprised by Alone in the Dark . It was so bad , I could hardly believe what I was seeing . There are no characters , just a few stereotypes wandering around and getting killed . The extent of the character development was giving each character a name and an occupation , and that 's about it . There was no real plot , and none of the characters seemed to have any motivation . In fact , many action scenes just began on their own , coming from nowhere with a pounding techno track . While I was watching this movie I kept asking `` Where is this happening ? What 's going on ? '' The acting was high school drama quality , with stiff wooden delivery , as though the actors were reading from cue cards without comprehending their lines . Their trouble delivering lines was made even more obvious by horrible sound design . ADR sounded like it was recorded in an open room . The actors were constantly taking obvious care to hit their marks , looking almost robotic in their movements . So , these listless automatons are whisked through a series of implausible and confusing scenarios , often without even the benefit of transition scenes . They were here , now they 're there . This was happening , now that 's happening . Random scenes with little rhyme or reason . I had a lot of fun watching it . Definitely not worth nine bucks though .
Since the Little Mermaid was one of my favorite Disney movies when I was little , I was curious about its sequel . The Little Mermaid ( one ) is a classic animated feature with top quality everything , a grand music score , and targets a general audience . In contrast , the Little Mermaid 2 is targeted primarily at young children , because it is spontaneous , reflects a child 's self perspective , the music is bouncier and less dramatic , and the ending feels like recess . The Little Mermaid 2 starts out when baby Melody is presented to Ariel 's side of the family . Abruptly without any visual cues to aid the drama , a giant tentacle grabs the baby . I laughed , wait a minute it 's not funny , the baby 's being attacked ! Okay , I 'll stop laughing . Morgana 's crime in broad daylight and her spontaneity , takes away potential drama since it happened so quickly . Throughout the feature , Melody seems superhuman , which I defend is how most children envision themselves . This quality in Melody 's character is clearly brought out toward the end when she fights Morgana without an inch of fear on her face . Like the first movie , Melody has a lot of Ariel 's problems , except the reverse . Queen Ariel turns out to be like her father by restricting her from the ocean , whereas King Triton restricted Ariel from the surface . Ariel and Melody both rebel against their parent . The music is more emotionally moving in the first . This sequel has a bunch of songs , but not as much orchestral work went into it . It 's great for little ones , because it does n't take an orchestra to impress them . The ending in the first movie was strong and uplifting . The sequel ends with a bouncy song and everyone playing in the water . It 's definitely more targeted at kids , because instead of the ending being solemn and leaving you blown away , this ending leaves you thinking , `` It 's time for recess ! '' Ultimately , this movie is fun for kids , so we should let them have fun .
Holy freaking God all-freaking-mighty . This movie was so bad , I thought I was on drugs . In a bad way ... The character acting is the poorest thing I 've seen in quite some time . This movie was more akin to Lord of the G-Strings , IMHO ( it 's a real movie ) . Most of the movie appeared to be done on a horrible green screen . My favorite part was when they are in the carriage , and you can tell there 's no horse . They 're fleeing from alien monsters , and going about the same speed as a swift jog . Then it switches to a far-shot with a ridiculous CG horse . And the CG in general seems to be sub-par to 1992 's Beyond the Mind 's Eye . I mean , Come on , really . It felt like a horrible episode of Hercules , only without Kevin Sorbo there to save the day . Worst . Movie . Ever .
This movie is a 90 minute Ramones concert with brief periods of stupidity and absolute boredom . What kind of high school is this anyway ? Unless you are a major Ramones fan , DO NOT and I repeat DO NOT waste your time like I did . This is utterly unwatchable from start to finish . This movie should be called Ramone Fever . Everyone appears to like them in this movie . There is not a plot to be found in this flick . As far as teen comedies go , you are scraping the bottom of the barrel with this one .
The reason the DVD releases of this film are in black and white is because nobody can get their hands on a color print of this public domain film , a modest sea story at best . Distributed for television thru Allied Artists , DVD 's ( or VHS ) on the market at this time for this title are all coming from the same 16MM television print . Films distributed for television prior to 1963 were often distributed in b/w prints , because the bulk of viewers did not have color sets anyway . Striking b/w prints for television was also cheaper , as it often involved quite a few prints to cover all stations running a film on a syndicated basis .
Much has been made of Rohmer 's use of digital technology to 'fill in ' the background . At times it works well , the scene where Grace and her maid witness from afar the King 's execution is particularly striking . At other times it gives the film a strangely amateurish look , resembling a home video . However , the major failing is that the sheer artificiality of the mise en scene creates an alienating effect in the viewer . We know that what we are watching is not real so how can we feel for the characters ? To be frank , I did not care at all what happened to the Lady or the Duke . The other major failing , I regret to say , is the performance of Lucy Russell in the leading role . She is in virtually every scene and the success or otherwise of the film rests on her performance . OK she is speaking a foreign language but she is incapable of expressing real emotion . Her emoting in the scene where she recounts to her friend Mme de Meyler ( an excellent performance by the debutante Helena Dubiel ) seeing the head on a pole caused some embarrassed laughter in the audience . Also , watch her hands when she is expressing emotion ! All in all a very disappointing film , particularly given the positive reviews on this site .
This movie is a rather odd mix of musical , romance , drama and crime with a sniff of film-noir to it . It 's basically one messy heap of different genres , of which none really works out like it was supposed to . This movie is an attempt by Mickey Rooney to be taken more serious as an actor . He 's a former child-star who always used to star in in happy comical- and musical productions at the start of his career . In this movie he picks a different approach ( although the musical aspects are still present in the movie ) . But his role is actually quite laughable within the movie . I mean Mickey Rooney as a tough player ? He 's an extremely small boyish looking man . He actually was in his 30 's already at the time of this movie but he seriously looks more like a 16 year old . Hearing him say babe to women and hearing talking tough to gangsters who are about 3 times bigger than he is just does n't look and feel right . He simply is n't convincing in his role . Because the movie mixes so many different genres , the story also really feels as a messy one . Somewhere in it there is a crime plot and somewhere in it is a romantic plot-line and one about living your dream but none of it works out really due to the messy approach and handling of it all . It just is n't an interesting or compelling movie to watch . László Kardos is also a director who has done only 10 movies in his lifetime , despite the fact that his career span from 1935 till 1957 . He must have been a struggling director who had a hard time getting work into the industry and instead once in a while was given a lesser script to work with . His movies are all unknown ones and normally also not of too high quality . Let 's also not forget that this is a '50 's movie but yet it more feels like a '40 's one or perhaps even as one from the '30 's . This is of course mostly due to the fact that this movie got shot in black & white . Generally speaking black & white movies from the '50 's often have a cheap looking feeling over it and this movie forms no exception . It 's a rather strange sight seeing Mickey Rooney and Louis Armstrong and his band as themselves performing together in a sequence . It was n't the only movie Armstrong appeared in though and he would often pop up in these type of movies , often simply as himself . I guess jazz lovers can still somewhat enjoy watching this movie due to its music , since there is quite an amount of it present in this movie . The movie actually received an Oscar nomination for best original song . An awkward little movie and outing from Mickey Rooney . 4/10
This movie displayed more racial hatred of Jews by David Mamet than I have have ever encountered in an American film . The sterotypes are so over the top that my ability to continue watching died . I was so disappointed at Joe Mantegna calling a bunch of men , sitting in a New York Jewish center cleaning weapons , heros that common sense prevailed and I stopped . I am deeply disturbed at the concept that Jews are not Americans and `` different '' . I suggest that Mr. Mamet is one of the causes of hatred not a healer of same .
Well let me say that I have always been a Steven seagal fan and his movies are usually great but this just do n't measure up to the rest . This in my opinion is very stupid I did not like it all . The biggest reason I do n't like it is because it is very flawed and to me does not make much sense . The acting is very bad even Steven seagal does not do good acting , The rest of the actors I can see because they just do direct to video movies . It does not follow a straight storyline everything happens at once so that why it does n't make much sense . Ther is barely any action in it at all and in order to make an action movie good you usually need action in it . The special effects are very bad and you can tell are fake . So all in all this has to seagals worst movie of all so if you want to see a Steven seagal movie do n't rent this one just pretend it does not exist . So just avoid this movie . Overall score : ** out of ********** * out of *****
Its spelled S-L-A-S-H-E-R-S . I was happy when the main character flashed her boobs . That was pretty tight . Before and after that the movie pretty much blows . The acting is like E-list and it 's shown well in the movie . Not to mention it is so low budget that Preacherman and Chainsaw Charlie are played by the same person . The whole movie looks like it was shot with a camcorder instead of half way decent film . The only other reason I liked the movie was because Chainsaw Charlie and Doctor Ripper were funny . They said many stupid things that made me laugh . Other than that if you see this movie at Blockbuster do everyone a favor hide it behind Lawnmowerman 2 . Anybody that thinks this movie is good should be mentally evaluated .
There is a uk edition to this show which is rather less extravagant than the US version . The person concerned will get a new kitchen or perhaps bedroom and bathroom and is wonderfully grateful for what they have got . The US version of this show is everything that reality TV should n't be . Instead of making a few improvements to a house which the occupants could not afford or do themselves the entire house gets rebuilt . I do not know if this show is trying to show what a lousy welfare system exists in the US or if you beg hard enough you will receive . The rather vulgar product placement that takes place , particularly by Sears , is also uncalled for . Rsther than turning one family in a deprived area into potential millionaires , it would be far better to help the community as a whole where instead of spending the hundreds of thousands of dollars on one home , build something for the whole community ... .. perhaps a place where diy and power tools can be borrowed and returned along with building materials so that everyone can benefit should they want to . Giving it all to one person can cause enormous resentment among the rest of the local community who still live in the same run down houses .
Undeveloped/unbelievable story line , ( by the time I sort of figured out where it was going , I no longer cared ) bad casting . ( come on ... William Macy as a hit man ? ? ? ) bad directing , ( have you ever seen Tracey Ullman perform SO badly ? ) ( Was I supposed to care what happened to the unethical incompetent , uncaring John Ritter character ? ) bad script ... ( Really , I 'm not looking for a formula script but this was really awful ) the only Really good thing in it was the kid . Ten lines ? It 's not OK if your comment is less than ten lines ? COme on -- whose rules are those ? Why ca n't I say what I have to say in less than 10 lines ? ? ? Is n't that kind of arbitrary ? Why is n't it OK to have less than 10 lines of comment ?
Do n't get me wrong , I want to see marijuana legalized as much as the next guy . I shall digress now . The writing , though , was unrealistic . A PTA mom dealing drugs but adamant about her drugs getting into the hands of an underage person . Give me a break . The smugness of very pretty Mary Louise Parkers character was an insult to my intelligence . The characters were not at all likable . Basically , the plot lines went nowhere . I understand its only TV land . The hypocrisy was blatant . Mary Louise Parker is supposed to be a great mom and I am supposed to believe this ... . WHY ? ? ? ? I just got the feeling I was being preached by a show reeking of seediness . Its like saying its OK to cheat on your wife , but with someone of legal age status . OK not exactly the same thing , but I think you people get my point . That save the children stuff is wonderful for campaign trails , I guess , but it does not hold water in a cable sitcom about a suburbanite mom , as the local pot dealer .
Some have praised _Atlantis : _The_Lost_Empire_ as a Disney adventure for adults . I do n't think so -- at least not for thinking adults . This script suggests a beginning as a live-action movie , that struck someone as the type of crap you can not sell to adults anymore . The `` crack staff '' of many older adventure movies has been done well before , ( think _The Dirty Dozen_ ) but _Atlantis_ represents one of the worse films in that motif . The characters are weak . Even the background that each member trots out seems stock and awkward at best . An MD/Medicine Man , a tomboy mechanic whose father always wanted sons , if we have not at least seen these before , we have seen mix-and-match quirks before . The story about how one companion , Vinny played by Don Novello ( Fr . Guido Sarducci ) , went from flower stores to demolitions totally unconvincing . Only the main character , Milo Thatch , a young Atlantis-obsessed academic voiced by Michael J . Fox , has any depth to him . Milo 's search for Atlantis continues that of his grandfather who raised him . The opening scene shows a much younger Milo giddily perched on a knee , as his grandfather places his pith helmet on his head . And while the characters were thin at best , the best part about _Atlantis_ was the voice talent . Perhaps Milo 's depth is no thicker than Fox 's charm . Commander Rourke loses nothing being voiced by James Garner . Although Rourke is a pretty stock military type , Garner shows his ability to breath life into characters simply by his delivery . Garner 's vocal performance is the high point . I 'm sorry to say Leonard Nimoy 's Dying King is nothing more than obligatory . Additionally , Don Novello as the demolition expert , Vinny Santorini , was also notable for one or two well-done , funny lines -- but I 've always liked Father Guido Sarducci , anyway . Also well done was the Computer Animation . The BACKGROUND animation , that is . The character animation has not been this bad for Disney since the minimalism that drove Don Bluth out the door . The character animation does nothing if not make already flat characters appear even flatter . Aside from landscapes , buildings and vehicles there is n't much to impress . The plot was the worst . Some say hackneyed or trite . I 'm not so sure about that . Any serviceable plot can be made into something new with the proper treatment . Shakespeare often started from a known story and plot and was famous only for putting on a new coat of paint . So the treatment is the thing . And _Atlantis_ obviously lacks that . I can not begin to go into all the logic gaps without a spoiler section . The plot was bad . The plot 's bridges snap like twine and the ending does not make sense . To add to that , the script and the animation is peppered with annoying sloppiness . ** SPOILERS ** 1 . Right at the beginning when Milo reveals that runic or Celtic symbols have been wrongly transliterated and the `` Coast of Ireland '' should read the `` Coast of Iceland '' , we begin to have problems . The writers of the script would need to know the British take for Eire or Eireann as `` Ireland '' , and completely ignore the older , Latin term Hibernia . But more than this , they need to know of the Vikings conspiracy to call the greener island Iceland and the icier island Greenland . By making it the matter of a mis-tranliterated `` letter '' , the writers have doomed themselves to requiring a runic version of English and a post-Roman date on the script . Since this is long after Atlantis was supposed to have sunk into its undersea cave . And without visible clues and less technology than Milo had , made the inscription far less trustworthy . 2 . The Shepard 's Journal could not be written before the sinking of Atlantis , or it would know nothing about the cave or the crystal lying `` in the King 's eye '' . It must have been written after the sinking , but without even the technology that Milo 's expedition had , how the heck did anybody get by the Leviathan . So how could it know more about anything after that ? And why would it be written in Atlantian ? Automatic writing and clairvoyance or astral travel can explain these things . However clairvoyance and astral travel do not require the shepard to write in Atlantian . So it 's got to be some sort automatic writing . Since noone left in Atlantis can read , it must be the spirits of the crystal beaming messages to the surface . This would have made more sense . But could also have been explained within the movie : Milo could have discovered that this power had been calling him all his life -- appeared in dreams , etc . This needed to be explored in the movie . 3 . The Atlantians should simply not be able to comprehend modern languages . No-one expects that the original Indo-Europeans would be able to converse in Europe , anymore than Romans would understand that hard `` c '' s or their day became French `` ch '' s ( pronounced like `` sh '' s , no less ! ) 4 . Current Atlantians were alive before the cataclysm -- when apparently they *could* read , yet now are unable to read what they used to , or operate similar machinery . 5 . The Mass Illiteracy points out a crucial flaw in the movie . NOTHING seems to have happened to this culture . It seems suspended in air until Milo can rescue it . Even though it appears that life is not a constant struggle for survival , no-one wants to compose poetry or write novels and perhaps it is a combination of Atlantian school systems going downhill toward the end and lack of good fiction that caused Atlantis to fall into illiteracy . 5 . Kida can be excused for not knowing how to read or operate the machinery if she was so young when the Cataclysm of Stupidity set in -- But ANY OF IT **HARDLY** qualifies her father for Deification ! ! Kashakim 's foolishness almost single-handedly wiped his people from existence . Killed a bunch in the cataclysm , stalled progress ( not a lot killed here , but he oversaw a massive slide in culture and progress ) until someone could take the crystal to kill everybody , if they were n't boiled in lava first because the Giant Robots were n't there to protect them . A bolt of blue electricity should have shattered Kashakim 's likeness , when Kida tried joining her father 's image to the circle of GREAT Kings of Atlantis ! 6 . Even though Milo was the only one who could read Atlantian , Rourke and others knew enough to look through a book of gibberish and find a page on a crystal -- which he knew to be a crystal and not some stylized astrological or `` phases of the sun '' diagram . 7 . If Milo 's grandfather had told Rourke about it , it still does not explain what how Rourke would have suffered from Milo 's reading it as part of the book . Ripping out the page -- which was dog-eared in Rourke 's hand , even though Milo found NO sign of a torn page in the book apparently -- only was there to tip off the viewer that `` something was not quite right '' . Unless the word `` crystal '' would have set alarms off in Milo 's head that somebody would try to steal it , Milo would have suspected nothing . It 's just thick-headed foreshadowing . 8 . The crew 's `` double-cross '' was not a character change . We learned that Vinny , Sweet , Audrey and Cookie had been going along with Rourke from the beginning . However , the `` change of heart '' falls flat . It was a change , and needed to be better motivated . Hard to do with characters who were n't given anything to begin with . 9 . Niggling little bit that the lava flows up over the dome , instead of filling in the rest of the area that we view the sequence from . It 's liquid ; it will not flow over the protective dome until it fills up all lower areas . 10 . The ending STINKS ! -- and makes no sense other than to appease political correctness . With it 's powersource restored , Atlantis is no longer a weak power , needing coddling . The giant robot guardians and the sky-cycles shooting blue lightning suggest that they have less to fear from us than they might . The technology is superior to ours , and definitely to early 20th-century . In the end Milo needs to teach the Atlantians to read , for what ? The whole idea is to leave their little quiet , chastened culture alone , not to send it into hyperdrive . ** END SPOILERS ** Perhaps , the Lost World plot and the turn-of-the-century setting should give me a hint that this is more an homage to pulps . The failures I find with the film agree with this idea . But I am at a loss why I should pay to see thin characters and plot holes simply because many dime novels had them as well . And pulp stories is part of the `` crap they ca n't sell adults anymore '' , anyway . We have become a bit more sophisticated and our pulp needs to grow up as well . Raiders of the Lost Ark lost none of its pulp feel and avoided so much badness . 4 out of 10 -- the movie is enjoyable but as I think about the plot , it seeps ever lower .
VILLA RIDES ( 1968 ) turns out to be something of a big disappointment ! And even though Sam Peckinpah had a hand in the screenplay , along with Robert Towne , it still emerges as a leadenly written movie dryly directed by the undistinguished Buzz Kulik . Firstly , top billed Yul Brynner as Pancho Villa is wrong for the part ! He 's not charismatic enough to play the great Mexican revolutionary ! His one note performance lacks the fire and gusto Anthony Quinn or Gilbert Roland could have brought to the role . Brynner simply looks like a Russian aristocrat dressed up like a Mexican bandit who is in the middle of the Mexican revolution instead of the Russian one . Also , second billed Robert Mitchum is totally wasted in the picture ! His part as a biplane flying ace lobbing home-made bombs from the air in the cause of the revolution is a poorly written meager role that could have been played by any minor star . Mitch has n't a decent line in the entire movie and brings to one 's mind his other Mexican revolution picture the far superior `` Bandido '' ( 1956 ) which unfortunately nobody seems to have any interest in releasing on DVD . Besides lacking any kind of style `` Villa Rides '' also suffers badly without the presence of a female star ! There is starlet Grazia Buccella as a young Mexican girl who gives Mitchum the glad eye but her casting is merely perfunctory . Someone like Claudia Cardinale or Jean Peters could have perhaps added a couple of badly needed notches to the faltering story line . There are a couple of good action scenes in the movie but a couple of good action scenes do not a movie make and the less than perfect Panavision picture quality plus the over repetitive Maurice Jarre theme tune does n't help matters . As is Paramount 's wont there are no extras - not even a trailer ! Yup , a disappointing movie and DVD presentation that could have been and should have been a whole lot better .
I thought the movie was OK but very disappointed that they did n't capture the true image of his life . I was so anticipating to see his mother being an actual Jamaican , that it 's driving me crazy . Just watching the beginning of the movie told me that the movie was not accurate . Which I completely lost interest just a matter of seconds from the beginning of the movie . I 'm very disappointed , that 's like watching a biography story on Mark Anthony and having Arnold play the part . I do n't know what the writer was thinking missing a valuable piece of the movie which I 'm sure his mother played a huge role in his life . I will say the movie was OK besides the major Fla ! ! ! ! ! !
Saw a trailer for this on another video , and decided to rent when it came out . Boy , was I disappointed ! The story is extremely boring , the acting ( aside from Christopher Walken ) is bad , and I could n't care less about the characters , aside from really wanting to see Nora 's husband get thrashed . Christopher Walken 's role is such a throw-away , what a tease !
The over-heated plot of `` Bonjour tristesse '' is taken from a juvenile first novel by Francoise Sagan , which became a best-seller , though God knows why . For teenagers wanting to get rid of a potential step-parent it may have a certain appeal . Do n't be taken in by the fact that David Niven plays the playboy father and Deborah Kerr the step-mother-in- prospect . Unfortunately , too much rests on the frail shoulders of Jean Seberg . She 's beautiful and easily fulfills the image of a spoiled teenager . The problem is that she can strike poses but she ca n't act . Anyone who saw her as Joan of Arc in Otto Preminger 's St. Joan -- Seberg 's first film -- knows she was incapable at 19 of carrying a film . This movie , also by Preminger , fulfills the `` promise '' of the first . It was her second movie ; she was now 20 . What was Preminger thinking ? That Niven and Kerr could compensate for Seberg 's lack of acting capacity ? Not a chance ? Seberg 's character is at the center of the story and , pretty though she is , convincing though she may be physically as a 17 year old , she ca n't meet the emotional demands of the role . I do n't know if she ever became a successful actress in her short life because she did not have an impact on my consciousness in her later pictures . But anyone who thinks this film is better than mediocre needs a taste check . In spite of Niven and Kerr , this remains a juvenile story executed in juvenile fashion by a beautiful young girl who badly needed acting lessons .
Exceedingly complicated and drab . I 'm a bright guy , but this was just too much for a tired brain . It would really benefit from a few early clues as to who these people are and what they are doing . Probably better for the US market . GC himself hinted that this alone did not supply his Oscar and you can see why . Still the sand dunes are pretty . The nail pulling is nasty . The attorneys drunk dad is a mystery . The cricket is good to see . Very difficult to write the required ten lines on this , despite it being over 2 hours long . Thank heavens they shortened it . Admittedly we do n't get to the pictures much , but the last film we saw , Walk the Line , was 10 times better and I do n't really like Johnny Cash . My wife says George still looks good with the beard and a few extra pounds so there 's that ... ..am I nearly there yet ? How about now
This mess is so bad it does n't even qualify as horror . Debbie Rochon 's talent is completely wasted in this film . She is not even the villain . The rest of the actors look like porno wannabes and the plot is so lame I wo n't even mention it . Do yourself a favor and skip to the end credits to hear upcoming band TwoMarlowe perform `` Better Than Sex '' it 's total 80 's Disco candy song . Nice up tempo song about Gambleing & Sex . Way more entertaining than `` Bleed '' . Put it this way , When one has the equipment to copy videos , but decides only to record the song at the end of movie , you have a really `` BAD '' movie .
This movie was extremely poorly conceived from every angle except technological . I stood and watched everyone waddle out of the theater , their faces drained like their lives flashed before their eyes -- eyes wandering at their neighbor , wondering if it was just them . I mean , how could the movie really be bad . Nobody 'll admit it , it 's a classic case of The Emperor Wears No Clothes . `` Who am I to question a movie containing a guy who stops a jet liner ? '' But the fact remains , every member of the audience is thinking what I 'm writing right now . I actually plagiarized their faces . Obviously Lois is only aroused by power , she wo n't even have a cup of coffee with the Superman With Glasses who does n't stop jet liners . It ca n't be the look in `` his '' eyes to the depths of his soul or anything like that . In the old Supermans , she had some level of connection with him , he was n't priority number 1 , obviously , but it strengthened her character that she was `` torn '' . I bet Henry Kissinger would have even won this Lois over before Clark Kent . And now it 's official , Kryptonite does to Superman what eating at McDonalds does to the avg . person . SUPERMAN `` ONE '' He loses his earth dad , then finds his real super dad , the story is captivating every step of the way . He 's human , he relates to people and he feels love for people , he relates to highschool students , he relates to people who feel different . He relates . The Superman Returns superman seems to relate only to Superpeople and it seems he 's just `` doing a job '' when he 's saving people . There 's something about Clark that Lois likes , she 's really internally in love with him but ca n't admit it , and when he comes into the picture as Superman , it throws a kink in the on-the-rocks love . Without Superman , she would 've fallen in love with Clark ( at least that 's what the movie points to , whether it was the intention or not ) . Superman Returns is a love story between a woman and SUPERMAN , Clark is like a pile of horse maneur to Lois . Literally . SUPERMAN TWO I just watched it again . As a kid , I `` thought '' I enjoyed the action , but now I know it was the STORY that held me then too , watching it over and over again . If I saw Superman Returns as a child , I would 've hated it then too , I think . There is so much heart and soul and superpower going around in this movie , it 's sick . Superman gives up his powers for love as a world plot is going on and meanwhile , MEANWHILE , Lex Luther 's got something fantastic up his sleeve . SUPERMAN THREE Now there 's a three-way love story between Superman and Lana and Clark , only humanity wins and Clark 's inner nature beats Superman 's power , because when his SUPERmoral nature is gone and he 's SuperHUMAN ( who does human things with his superpowers ) , she sees it 's not the power of Superman that she 's in love with , it 's not SUPERpowerman , but SUPERMORTALman that she loves -- and who 's really SUPER . And when she tells Clark she `` prefers '' him to Superman , he is elated , he has made a human connection again . He wants to be accepted for who he is , not just for his ability to bend steel . THIS IS THE KIND OF STUFF THAT 'S MISSING FROM SUPERMAN RETURNS . Clark super-sneezes to help the kid get a strike - humanity again . Plus , it 's an INERESTING use of superpowers . He 's not just using straight brute strength . He crushes the coal into a diamond for his woman because she had to sell hers , love is the only thing that drives him to use his powers other than for saving . It seems there 's nothing at stake in Superman Returns . Even in Superman Three , we see the damages caused by the nemesis ' world domination plot.. we see suffering , we see how it effects Pryor and others and people in the middle of it.. there 's no damage , esp . emotional from Lex 's plot to sink the US . We see a glob of crystal thrown into space.. Superman had to get very creative in the first three Supermans in order to stop the plot against him , he could n't just `` access '' his superpowers . In the first one , he had to stop two missiles going in different directions and then break his universal mandate and erase history to save Lois ' life ... ( this was THIRTY YEARS AGO ! ! '' ) In the second one , he had to outsmart three guys that he was already more POWERFUL than , but combined with Lex 's genius , and the villains ' immoral tactics , Superman 's overpowering was n't enough , he had to work one against the other and outsmart them ... In Superman III , again , his superpowers were n't enough to win.. He had to outsmart a computer that calculated everything it saw . He could n't use straight aggression on the computer because it calculated it in advance , so he had to use a benign acid that would only become deadly to the computer after the computer responded to the aggression . And he found that acid earlier when he could n't simply use his superpowers to BLOW out a fire because it was a chemical fire , so he had to use his superbrains -- he could n't carry water , so he froze a lake and dropped it on the fire.. Now in Superman Returns , he simply lunges the island into outerspace , like a night temp for UPS . He does n't need to figure anything out , he just uses his `` super strength '' . And Lex Luther 's brilliance was shown at the premeditation level of a junkie who just ran out of junk . To say nothing of the fact that he threw that island into outerspace after getting stabbed with a KNIFE of kyrptonite right in the bloodstream AND the island itself was dripping kryptonite spores in his face , but he just averted his eyes and nose like it was n't Grey Poupon he was looking at .
Sure , I like short cartoons , but I did n't like this one . Naturally , kids would love it . But then again , I 'm not a kid anymore ( although I still consider myself young ) . I will not tell you anything about the story , for the simple reason there is no story . How is it possible this dragon of a cartoon was nominated for an Oscar ? ! Well ... I guess it 's because people in the 30 's were more happy with not much than now . In the present where we live , everything must happen fast . Look at the movies nowadays , and you will come to the same conclusion : we live in a society that does n't allow men to be slow . That 's really a shame . I wish I lived in the 30 's , because it seems so peaceful . But every time has got its ups and downs , I guess ... To conclude : if you like music ( and frogs ) , you 'll have to see this cartoon . Otherwise , do n't spill your time on it .
`` Little Man '' , now on DVD , is a Wayans Brothers flop . It 's the tale of a smaller than a midget criminal played by Marlon Wayans , who hides a diamond in a lady 's purse after a heist . He and his partner Tracy Morgan cook up the genius plan to disguise Marlon as a baby and plant him at the lady 's home . He then goes through all sorts of `` Home Alone '' or `` Child 's Play '' like mayhem to get the jewel back and be treated like a baby . I was surprised by how low the humor was in this film . The jokes have been done in other places so many times , that they are n't cute or funny . I almost think the movie might have been funnier if they did n't use CGI and used the small actor who Marlon 's face was pasted over . In watching the deleted scenes ( minus CGI ) this actor was funny in a Mini-me like way , but they chose a different route . A few cameos and Tracy Morgan make some funny scenes..Spend your rental fee $ on Borat if you want some real laughs these days . http : //mcmusicnotes.blogspot.com
And so the great rewriting of history continues Hollywood style . This was senseless ridiculous rubbish . Its shocks me that such an amazing amount of money can be spent to produce what is the most contrived , poorly acted inaccurate film I have ever seen . It is appalling . Nic Cage 's brief flirtation with serious acting appears to be over . I can only assume that Leaving Las Vegas was a glitch in an otherwise litany of dreadful films . Diane Kruger proves that her performance in Troy was no fluke , she really ca n't act . Harvey Keitel should be ashamed of himself for working on such tripe . Only recommended for those either recovering from a recent lobotomy or people of an opinion that America invented the world .
Well I 'm blowed , a Woody Allen film that I walked out of after half an hour ( I 'm aware of the moral fragility of commenting on a film of which I 've seen less than half , but I hope you 'll understand why ) . Basically , it became apparent very early on that we were going to be patronised from the screen with : a script that set out its conceit as if with bullet points ; a cast that were all trying to be characters from Hannah and Her Sisters ( with the exception of Chloe Sevigny ) , and were badly directed into doing so ; and a camera that sat around portentously , only for there to be nothing to film but chat and the actor delivering it . Drama ? None ; it 's partially pre-narrated , but the action does nothing to develop a dramatic situation . Maybe I did leave too early in this case , but by then I 'd decided against another hour and a half of one-liner-Allen clones . The script has its funny moments – I went almost entirely on the back of Will Ferrell 's excerpts in the trailer ( trailer-hooked again , doh ! ) – but there 's little pace to let them fly off nonchalantly , as is best . Worse than this there 's no fluidity . Saying this film 's wooden makes a forest look like a jelly : the opening café-bound discussion being the most abject case-in-point . The only thing that should be done by numbers is potted reviewing – 2/10 .
Any movie that portrays the hard-working responsible husband as the person who has to change because of bored , cheating wife is an obvious result of 8 years of the Clinton era . It 's little wonder that this movie was written by a woman .
`` A young woman unwittingly becomes part of a kidnapping plot involving the son of a movie producer she is babysitting . The kidnappers happen to be former business partners of the son 's father and are looking to exact some revenge on him . Our babysitter must bide her time and wait to see what will become of the son and herself , while the kidnappers begin to argue amongst themselves , placing the kidnap victims in great peril , '' according to the DVD sleeve 's synopsis . That acclaimed director René Clément could be responsible for this haphazard crime thriller is the real shocker . Despite beginning with the appearance of having been edited in a washing machine , the film develops a linear storyline . Once you 've figured out what is going on , the engaging Maria Schneider ( as Michelle ) and endearing John Whittington ( as Boots ) can get you through the film . There are a couple of female nude scenes , which fit into the storyline well . **** Wanted : Babysitter ( 10/15/75 ) René Clément ~ Maria Schneider , John Whittington , Vic Morrow
Few films have left me with such a feeling of unease , and this is not a compliment . Since I saw it in a theater ( How it ended there I can only wonder ) I was subjected to 90 mn of hateful , derivative garbage , the main impression being a bit like this other sick-o movie `` Do n't answer the phone '' - but worse . The nastiness of it all , rape and all , is shown without any distance ( unlike strong stuff like `` Last house on the left '' ) and utter contempt for the ( perfect ? ) victims and everybody involved , leaving the viewer to be treated as a sadistic voyeur . At the end I felt like taking a shower . No credits to the director
I respect Alex Cox the filmmaker , I really do . He 's like the kid at school who you think at first is just trying a little too hard to be `` different '' , a literary punk-rocker who has dipped more than his feet into spaghetti westerns and science fiction and fringe-culture and come out into the world ready to take s*** on ... but then you see what he can actually do , the talent and raw feverish artistry and moments of true absurd hilarity capable of him , and you are ready to see whatever he has to offer . But there 's two sides to his proverbial coin : he can either really hit it out of the park ( Repo Man , Sid & Nancy , Walker arguably ) or just try just a little too hard and pull way too many pretentious rabbits out of the hat ( Straight to Hell ) . Death and the Compass falls into the latter category , and while I respect its ( mostly ) original approach to tackling a detective-killer story , it too falls on its face and its weirdness becomes oddly dull . It has a strange enough set-up and already irreverent style to follow : a detective , Erik Lonnrot , is after a killer with a hell-fire voice , Red ( something ) , and it seems that the killer is leaving disturbing clues with his victims : scrawled in blood on the walls are messages that , according to eyewitness Alonso Zunz ( Christopher Eccleston looking as if he just walked off Shallow Grave without changing his look ) has religious significance in the Kabbalah . We follow Lonnrot on his case , and his methods of going after the perp , which include following at first a triangular and then compass-shaped pattern on the map- this despite the protests of the flabbergasted Commissioner Treviranus ( Miguel Sandoval ) , who also looks back in flash-forwards sitting at a desk and speaking to the audience in garbled but sad descriptions of his former employee and colleague after the fact of the case . Oh , Cox has his moments of creativity and interest , such as a shot where we see the entire scope of the harrowing depths of the police station where Eccleston 's character is taken in by handcuffs ( `` For his own protection '' says Lonnrot in case of getting lost in the wrong room ) and we 're followed in a long tracking shot- maybe the best or just most curious- where we 're taken through very dark hallways with very little direction , lost in the maze of turns and oddities among the characters . And it 's never something that is n't fascinating to *look* at , with Miguel Garzon 's cinematography a morbid delight . But The plot goes through hoola-hoops to keep things so off-beat it might as well be beat-less all-together . The performances , save for a confident Boyle and for Eccleston at the very end , are pretty bad , especially Sandoval who just seems to squirm in his seat reciting the goofy dialog given to him to speak at the audience . While the murder plot itself contains an intention for the audience that this is n't something we 've seen before , that it 's in a society with a good many rioters and architecture suggesting Alphaville 's next decrepit wave , it too fizzle 's out very quickly . What 's the conflict here ? I was never that much engaged with Boyle 's own personal mission to find this killer , and only mildly caught up in the few flashes of deranged scenes of the killer ( and/or killers ) going after people like in the building early on ( Cox himself has an amusing cameo ) . And just when I started to think it was leading up to something spectacular , with Boyle and Eccleston in that big ( `` not as big as you think '' ) building in the South section of the city , it suddenly gives us a `` TWIST '' that we know in the back of our minds is coming but hope is n't , and it deflates any of the humdrum mystery it 's been leading up to . For all of Cox 's uncanny touches as a filmmaker , for all of his opposition to spoon-feeding the audience with a 'conventional ' approach , which I do respect , Death and the Compass ultimately cuts one off at the brain-stem ; it 's masturbatory .
What the ... ... ... .. is this ? This must , without a doubt , be the biggest waste of film , settings and camera ever . I know you ca n't set your expectations for an 80 's slasher high , but this is too stupid to be true . I baught this film for 0.89 $ and I still feel the urge to go claim my money back . Can you imagine who hard it STINKS ? Who is the violent killer in this film and what are his motivations ? ? ? Well actually , you could n't possible care less . And why should you ? The makers of this piece of garbage sure did n't care . They did n't try to create a tiny bit of tension . The director ( Stephen Carpenter -- I guess it 's much easier to find money with a name like that ) also made the Kindred ( 1986 ) wich was rather enjoyable and recently he did Soul Survivors . Complete crap as well , but at least that one had Eliza Dushku . This junk has the debut of Daphne Zuniga ! ! ! ( Who ? ? ) Yeah that 's right , the Melrose Place chick . Her very memorable character dies about 15 min . after the opening credits . She 's the second person to die . The first victim dies directly in the first minute , but nobody seems to mention or miss him afterwards so who cares ? The rest of the actors ... they do n't deserve the term actors actually , are completely uninteresting . You 're hoping they die a quick and painful death ... and not only their characters My humble opinion = 0 / 10
A terrible film which is supposed to be an independent one . It needed some dependence on something . This totally miserable film deals with the interactions among Irish people . Were they trying to imitate the wonderful film `` Crash ? '' If so , this film crashed entirely . There is just too much going on here culminated by a little brat running around and throwing rocks into buses and cars which obviously cause mayhem . The film is just too choppy to work . One woman loses her husband after 14 years to another while her younger sister is ripped off by a suitor . This causes the former sister to become a bitter vetch and walk around in clothes not worth believing . The older sister also becomes embittered but soon finds romance . Then , we have 3 losers who purchase masks to rob a bank . Obviously , the robbery goes awry but there does n't seem to be any punishment for the crooks . Perhaps , the punishment should have been on the writers for failure to create a cohesive film .
For the record , this film is intriguing but its hardly original . Back in 1998 a movie starring Talia Shire called The Landlady had almost the exact same plot but with younger characters . The story is Amanda Lear has had a bad life , abusive father , horny doctor , mental homes , etc . She 's finally released from the happy home under the guidance of her perverted doctor ... who she anally abuses and kills the poor guy . ( now THAT was original ) The doctor had financed a mansion for her before she killed him and buried the sucker in the backyard . After moving in she falls in love with a stud named Richard , who just happens to be married to a blues singer . If you 've seen The Landlady you know the rest , she kills or tries to kill anyone that gets in between her and Richard ( including a roadie ) . Much of the idea 's came from the previous movie , same idiot sidekick that sticks his nose in , same spying on the guy with a bowl of popcorn , same flying a bodypress . It did have some original material , the beer bottle thing was brutal . The highlight of the movie was Amanda 's beautiful breasts in the hot-top scene . Somewhat of a ripoff but not a total waste of time . 4 out of 10
Shallow , shallow script ... stilted acting ... the shadows of boom mikes lingering over the actors ' heads in scenes ... worth watching because Kate Mulgrew plays the most selfish mother in TV movie history and it 's all before Ben Affleck got his teeth capped .
This is the kind of movie that leaves you with one impression.. Story writing IS what movie making is about . Incredible visual effects.. Very good acting , especially from Shue . Everything is perfect.. Except.. The story is just poor and so , everything fails . Picture this , if you had the power to be invisible.. What would you do ? Well , our mad scientist here ( played by Kevin Bacon ) could think of no other thing to do but fondle and rape women.. This is all his supposedly `` genius '' mind could think of . Does he try to gain extra power ? No . He does n't even bother research a way to get back to being visible . The guy is basically a sex crazed maniac . Add to that , the lab atmosphere , you have all these young guys.. Throwing around jokes like they were in a bar.. If it was n't for all the white coats and equipment , you would think this is a bad imitation of `` Cheers . '' Very shallow and poor personalities and very little care is put into making you think these guys are anything but lambs for the Hollow Man 's wolf . Even as a thriller , the movie falls way short because most of the `` thrilling '' scenes are written out so poorly and are full of illogical behaviors by the actors that are just screaming `` this is just a stupid thing I have to do so that the Hollow man can find me alone and kill me . '' If you read the actual book , while the Scientist ( Cane ) goes after women , there is a lot of mental manipulation and disturbing thought that goes into his character . In the movie , Cane is just the sick guy who goes to a crowded marketplace to rub his body in women and get off on it . Just sad .
I really felt cheated after seeing this picture . It felt like I sat watching this movie 101 minutes for nothing . I do n't understand what they were thinking when they made this . It hardly gets into Jeffrey Dahmer murdering and it has no ending . It felt almost like they were leaving this movie open for a sequel . It was like watching a television episode of the Sopranos . It ends suddenly , and you know there 's going to be another episode next week . It also felt like I just watched part 1 to a two part movie . There are many possibilities for what went wrong here ; they got lazy , they ran out of money , they did n't know the rest of the story , they wanted to make a Dahmer 2 . After seeing this movie they all sound very accurate . I was watching Jeffrey Dahmer walking through the woods . All of a sudden I hear this music playing , then writing comes on the screen and says how Dahmer served 2 years of his sentence and was attacked by a fellow inmate and killed at the age of 34 . Wow , he goes from a walk in the woods to his death in jail . How about showing how he got there . How about showing Dahmer 's trial . How about showing some more detail . I ca n't even explain what happened in this movie because it jumped all over the place . I actually found myself saying in disbelief , `` That 's it , that 's the end ? '' I want to conclude this review by saying there is still a good Dahmer movie yet to be made . To the filmmakers I 'd like to say , if you 're going to do it , do it right .
Medellin is a fabulous place to live , work , and study . I 've been there twice , and never did I hear anything about guerrilla activities , paramilitaries taking tourists hostage , or anything of the sort . There are `` invisible police , '' but it is *not* a Big Brother system . There are just enough police so that they are visible in everyday life , but they do not hassle someone without good reasons . La Sierra is an interesting documentary in that the youths it depicts in the movie essentially become its characters . The directors of the movie carefully carve out plot lines among the daily actions of the inhabitants of La Sierra , and when a `` character '' dies , there is genuine pathos . It is difficult to imagine , however , that the three youths are all members of the Bloque Metro , a gang that used to terrorize La Sierra before the Colombian government began to restructure the country . La Sierra is not an accurate depiction of life in Colombia ; there are , of course , things to be wary of such as petty crime , but when one considers pickpocketing happens in `` modern '' cities such as London , New York , or Tokyo , Colombia does n't seem that different after all . Colombians are eagerly awaiting their chance to show to the world that the once war-torn country is now prospering more than ever .
This movie is one of the most awful movies ever made.How can Jon Bon Jovi play in a movie ? He is a singer not an actor , What ? Is he killing vampires with his guitar ? And what about the dreadful plot ? O my God this movie really sucks . In the end is the Queen of vampires played by the eternal vampire Arly Jover ( Blade ) surrounded by an army of vampires , but when the `` fantastic '' slayers arrive only 4 vampires are left ! ! What happened with the other 10-15 vampires ? They run out in the sun ? ? ? And what about the `` Grand Finally '' when Bon Jovi blows her head with a shotgun ? ? ? That 's really a `` NOT '' . In `` Buffy the vampire Slayer '' in 100 episodes not a single vampire is killed with A SHOTGUN ? ? ? This really is a lack of originality !
Only the glandular secretions -- and please do n't ask for any more details -- of young virgins can keep the rapidly deteriorating body and mind of the crazed old amateur horticulturalist 's wife fresh and youthful . Since , like most people except those taking part in medical trials , virgins seldom give up their secretions willingly , Dr. Lorenz ( Bela Lugosi ) arranges for them to be abducted and preserved . He 'll do the extracting himself . What a great cheese ball of a premise for a low budget horror movie . If The Corpse Vanishes turns out not to be the Havarti of horror , as a plain limburger it leaves an interesting aftertaste . Sure , the acting is almost awful except for the actors fortunate enough to be playing the crazed dwarf ( Angelo Rossitto , who later played The Master in Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome ) ; his crazed brute of a brother , Angel ( Frank Moran ) , who grunts a lot and has a fetish for the virgins ' hair ; the crazed mother of the two ( Minerva Urecal ) ; the crazed wife ( Elizabeth Russell ) , who sleeps in a plush coffin and , of course , the crazed doctor ( Lugosi ) . An enterprising young reporter , Patricia Hunter ( Luana Walters ) tracks down the doctor because of a strange orchid with a peculiarly sweet odor that had been worn by the victims . When the doctor and his wife invite Pat to stay the night , a raging storm immediately breaks out . That clue tells us some raging violence is about to erupt inside . Since it 's well known that in Hollywood at this time all unmarried young women were virgins , Pat may have some unpleasant surprises to deal with . They include dark passages , a crusty laboratory where a near dead virgin is stored , a basement mausoleum and , later , a direct threat to Patricia 's own glandular secretions . If she survives , what a story she 'll have to give her editor . If you sample this moist slice of moldy Velveeta ( and why not ? Do n't be superior ) , do n't judge Bela Lugosi by the company he keeps here . He had a huge impact in Dracula ( 1931 ) , but my favorite movie of his is The Black Cat ( 1934 ) . As Dr. Vitas Werdegast he 's a sad , ironic man protective of his two young friends . When he finally takes a scalpel to Hjalmar Poelzig ( Boris Karloff ) and begins to flay the man alive , ah , well , it 's a great scene .
Please avoid this movie at all costs . This is without a doubt , the worst movie I 've ever seen . Most movies have at least one redeeming value . This has none . Totally horrible !
Ok , let me say that I did n't expect a film starring Jerry Springer to be cinematic gold , all I asked for was it to be cinematic ... and it was n't even that . It looked like someone 's bad home movies . Poorly acted , scripted , and filled to the brim with nudity of the most unnattractive people I 've ever seen . The film 's `` plot '' focuses on a low-class family who decide to go on the `` Jerry Farrelly Show '' to discuss multiple affairs between a mother , daughter , stepfather and the daughter 's fiancee . From there , the movie fizzles and develops into a unique experience : white-trash pornography . There 's redneck sex , interacial sex , even sex between Jerry and his wife ? ( Yuk ! ) This film encouraged me to want to run out of the theater and get a second circumcision . At least it was mercifully short . Disgusting and degrading . African-Americans and working class America should be offended . ( Howard Stern should be pleased however , he did n't squander his attempt for film stardom . His was smart , funny and entertaining ) MY GRADE : F+ ( the daughter was hot )
Sorry , but aside from Kim Basinger doing a good job acting scared , this was one of the worst thrillers I 've seen in awhile . Logic is thrown out as 4 young guys terrorize this woman outside a crowded mall then shoot a security guard . Yet no one seems to notice . Then , instead of screaming for help or racing back to the mall , she drives off and ends up in the middle of the woods with the guys in hot pursuit . I ca n't even describe how silly it is seeing this woman fleeing from 4 retarded thugs , carrying a red toolbox , screaming for God to come help her , and then having sex with one of them after brutally killing the others . Please trust me , this is bad and a bit tasteless as well .
Genie ( Zoe Trilling ) arrives in Egypt to visit her hypocritical , bible-quoting archeologist father ( William Finley ) and attracts the attention of a group of cultists led by a descendant of the Marquis de Sade ( Robert Englund ) . Englund also plays de Sade in flashbacks , ranting in his cell . Genie is led astray by Mohammed ( Juliano Merr ) , who rides around naked on a horse and Sabina ( Alona Kamhi ) , a bisexual who introduces her to opium smoking , which leads to a wild hallucination featuring topless harem dancers , a woman simulating oral sex on a snake , an orgy and her father preaching in the background ! Meanwhile , black hooded cult members decapitate , gouge out eyeballs and slit throats . When Genie is slipped drugs in her tea , she imagines de Sade hanging from a cross , a gold-painted woman in a leafy g-string and herself bloody on a bed covered in snakes . It 's all because she 's the reincarnation of de Sade 's lost love . This typically sleazy Harry Alan Towers production is redundant , seedy and pretty senseless , but the sets , costumes , cinematography and location work are all excellent and at least there 's always something going on . Score : 3 out of 10
Remember when Harrison Ford was the biggest star in Hollywood because he made great movies ? Those days are feeling like a more and more distant memory . While `` Hollywood Homicide '' is by no means terrible , it is a routine and surprisingly boring buddy cop movie . It 's a comedy that 's not particularly funny , and an action movie that 's not especially exciting . An overabundance of subplots can not mask the weakest of the central storyline . Ford at least appears to be enjoying himself more than is his last few projects , and he is able to carry the film most of the time . Hartnett is adequate , but he and Ford are n't exactly Newman and Redford as far as chemistry is concerned . All in all , `` Hollywood Homicide '' is a reasonably amusing diversion , but just barely . Take out Ford , and it 's not even that .
Stewart Kane ( Gabriel Byrne , VANITY FAIR ) heads out with his local Jindabyne , Australia fishing buddies for a weekend of rest , recreation , and relaxation . But when Stewart discovers an aboriginal woman 's body floating face-down in a river , things appear to have turned out for the worst . The largest casualty of the weekend is the men 's commonsense . They do n't hike out of the ravine , and instead finish their fishing weekend with some great catches . Then they head out and report the body . The town and the men 's lives quickly turn into a mess . The local media swarms them , and accusations of aboriginal prejudices rear up from the local natives . Stewart 's wife Claire ( Laura Linney , THE EXORCISM OF EMILY ROSE ) senses the deeper meanings of what her husband and his friends did , but has to battle with it through her own mental illness . Amidst all this chaos is the life that was this young woman who is now a media spectacle , splayed out on a morgue slab . Her murder and subsequent dumping into the water are symbolic of what lay beneath the town of Jindabyne : a division of men and women , black and white , social and outcast . The only other people who seem to understand some of what is going on are two young kids : Stewart and Claire 's son who is being led around by a half-breed Aussie who 's mother was killed also just a few years before . The young girl lives with her grandparents and is trying to let go of her mother the best way she can , and the discovery of a new body seems — strangely enough — a method in which to accomplish this ( again , the underlying current of Jindabyne is surmised ) . Everything and everyone in this Jindabyne township feels what lurks beneath its surface , yet none of them are willing to dive into the murky waters and take a look around ( the symbolism here is seen when a nearby lake that is used for recreation and swimming is said to contain the old town of Jindabyne under its surface ) . None , that is , until Claire forces them to . The movie is interesting if a bit too convoluted . There are far too many story lines that needed exploring and it just does n't get done ; too many loose threads . The acting was okay , but the filming was terrible . Wobbly cameras , grainy or dark shots , and just a generalized sloppiness hurt the overall production . I enjoy symbolic films , NORTHFORK being one of my all-time favorites in that vein . But Jindabyne needed to peak its head above the turbid water so that it could see its own problems , which simply did n't happen .
This is the worst piece of crap I have seen recently . There is nothing good about this movie . The plot is plain stupid , dialogs do n't make any sense , humorous scenes never heard anything about the real humor . Actors just do n't play , the worse they do n't even try . The script itself is somewhat which is in the same league with Ed Wood and Uwe Boll . There is only one good thing in this flick , the fights . They are well choreographed as one would expect of the Hong Kong guys , and are the only reason to watch Prince of the Sun . Although I believe the fights are just supposed to fill the empty space so that the screenwriter did n't have to bother thinking about the storyline . However , this weak and absurd plot may prevent you from watching it to the end . Avoid it unless you are fan of the dragon lady Cynthia Rothrock .
I am not one of those people who just go online after I see a movie and decide to call it the worst movie ever made . If you doubt me , please look at my other reviews . However , for the first time ever , I have seen a movie so horrible that I wanted to write about how bad it was before it was even over . I LOVE bad movies . To me , Ed Wood is a genius , I thought Bloody Murder , Jeepers Creepers and most horrible horror movies were good . However , there is not a single good thing I can say about this film . The plot is basically non existent . If someone reading my review wastes their money to see it , they can discern for themselves what the plot might be , but I advise you that a nickel would be worth more than watching this movie . The special effects are bad . The acting is bad . The two leads are attractive , but that 's all there is . I am not the type to spoil a movie for anyone , but I INVITE anyone to email me at foxbarking @ yahoo.com to ask for my opinion on this movie before they waste a dime on it . I will tell you anything . I love bad movies , and I love horror and I love new inventive movies . I even love horror porn stuff like Hostel ( Which some reviewers claimed this was like , but obviously they only thought so cause Roger Bart was in this and Hostel 2 ) . But this may be the Number 1 most worthless and stupid and dumbass movie EVER made . And before you disregard this review , this is coming from someone who not only sat through the ENTIRE premiere of House of the Dead , but actually bought a copy of it .
Ed Wood is eclipsed and becomes Orson Welles . This film is fantastic . Vampire witches who fight in terribly choreographed scenes and dialog that could have breaking ribs with laughter . Plan 9 From OUterSpace dons't stand a chance against this . Described by the writer and psychic Stephen Armourae on the Vampire Forum as a masterpiece- he 's from England and thoroughly sarcastic . It has Stephanie Beaton and the producers know whats going to save them from bankcrupcy by repeatedly using her . Though she leaves me cold as she looks more like the undead than all the devil raisers . And Eileen Daly is just a lower rate Elvira . The whole thing is badly done . Watch it for the script though
There 's enough star power in THE HOUSE OF SPIRITS to create another galaxy , yet the final product is pretty debatable . The film and its messages are very noble , and I think perhaps most would agree with them . ( Liberal Democracy good , violent fascist regime bad ; open-mindedness good , racism bad , etc ) . Unfortunately , we 're battered from head to toe with these , and as much subtlety is used as I 've described them . Ultimately , we are left watching very noble people without any flaws squaring off with nasty cretins who have no redeeming qualities . It radiates with all the suspense of a badly orchestrated `` pro '' wrestling match . Jeremy Irons plays the patron , a man of many contradictions . Meryl Streep as his gifted bride and Glenn Close , as her sister in law . When the camera stays with these folks , the movie tends to move , and is quite enjoyable . Unfortunately , THE HOUSE OF SPIRITS engages with simply way too many subplots , and characters pop up and out of the picture like shooting gallery targets . We do n't get to know them , hence we do n't get to care for them . The result is boredom . If Bille August , the director and screenwriter ( from Isabel Allende 's book ) had either lengthened the film or snipped a few characters , this film might have worked completely . As it stands , it was a nice try , with nice messages , and a bonecrushing yawnfest . Not recommended .
This movie is so bad , you almost feel contaminated by it . Actually , there is a strong sense of relief when it 's over , relief that you can now put the cassette back in the rewinder and RUSH this back to the video rental store before it contaminates the rest of your video collection . I jokingly suggested when we rented it that it looked like the kind of film where William Hurt would `` phone in '' his performance . I meant that he would not be trying very hard . But lo and behold , in a huge number of scenes in this film , Bill Hurt is actually ON THE PHONE ! Our realization of this irony was the only pleasure we derived from this confusing mess . The cinematography and editing are murky and befuddled , the story is chaotic , and the soundtrack is barely audible . There is a very slight resemblance to `` Falling Down '' , but that film had a boldly disturbing story-line , great writing and acting , and an engaging soundtrack . `` Contaminated Man '' is just some kind of broken down old European tourist trap , and watching it is like driving along some unfamiliar back road in an unknown country where you do n't speak the language in a steady rain just after nightfall as the windshield keeps fogging up . You get the picture ? Do n't get this one .
well well One cant b wasting time just cause of a big star-cast ..i think all i could see is a bunch of talents wasting their time on a big screen with some pathetic humor which will appeal to i do not know who ? some pathetic songs that will be heard by who ? some pathetically abrupt turnings justified by who ? race against time ? u mean waste against time ? OK so first you spoil your kid , then you teach him a lesson wow we are so ignorant of this fact whoever said its a brilliant new concept probably is some other species other than human alright fine let me come comment like humans do movie has a nice message to be given but it could well have been given by a stranger sitting besides you in the bus rather than you going for such a wasteful movie to learn it Hindi movies have proved it a lot already and also i cant waste my time writing about waste anyway !
This movie has some beautiful sets and Albert Finney does a great job as the ruthless father . The movie fails because Jennifer Jason Leigh is too jumpy as the daughter and is no match whatever for Olivia De Havilland 's far more nuanced , mature rendering in The Heiress ( 1949 ) . The film 's feminist-leaning conclusion also goes against the austere conclusion of the novel , Washington Square , whose author , Henry James , savagely parodied feminism in some of his other novels . As a fan of old Hollywood and great literature , I found this movie very disappointing .
Is it just me or is that kid really annoying ? Hideos sister , spends most of her time running around after the disobedient little so and so . As for him , well , I know he 's a kid n all , but his acting ability is about as wooden as a dead tree . So far I 'm only half way through , and am fascinated by the story , but the people in it , let it down , I just hope it gets better by the end , as I ca n't not know what it 's all about . Although , some supposedly cryptic messages in the scribbles on the wall and a notebook , indicate everything is backwards , i.e . Dog is God , Live is Evil etc ... just seems a little obvious at the moment , yet nobody mentions its obvious meaning , ( As yet anyway ) If my opinion changes at the end of the movie , I 'll update this post , but if your reading this , then well ... ... See above statement .
OK , this has got 2 be one of the worst excuses 4 a movie that i have ever had the misfortune of watching . Like all other Olsen twins movies with the possible exception of new york minute , this film had no story , gaping plot holes , disgustingly putrid acting and bad filming even ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! in case you have n't guessed yet I HATE MARY KATE AND ASHLEY ! ! ! ! ! ! The only reason i watched this was because i was really bored and nothing else was on . I wonder if the twins will EVER stop making the same stereotypical movies where they have an unbelievably stupid adventure in an exotic location and save the day meanwhile getting the help of two cute guys who drool over them immediately . The least they could would be to have a guy 4 1 of them or have them both falling 4 the same guy . The plot in this story was so imbecilic and just plain dumb . even a toddler could see the flaws in it.Maybe they should split up and start making films individually or maybe films with a different kind of story . Anyone who liked this movie was no offense-either really stupid , really artificial or has not seen any really good movie . or maybe they are really smart and just have bad cinematic choices . either way i would not recommend this movie to my worst nemesis for a good movie experience.. the only thing it is good 4 is some rib splitting laughter at the pathetic attempts to be cool . if you watch for laughs it 's hilarious . basically i give it 0 or less .
Basically this is an overlong , unfunny , action/comedy . First of all I 'd like to say that I did enjoy the Wayans brother Scary Movie ( 1 ) and the sequel had it 's moments . Unfortunately white chicks does n't even deliver HALF the laughs . The humour in it is absolutely crude . If you like burping , farting , stupid catchphrases you should probably look at this . When it is n't crude it 's idiotic . The first 10 minutes of the film gave everything away to me , totally unfunny , simply idiotic . However I watched the whole thing since I was with a friend ( otherwise I would n't have bothered ) . The story is undeniably thin , it was in scary movie too but there at least the laughs were quick and constant . I think this is probably one of the main problems too with this film , the laughs do n't come quick enough . Some jokes are dragged out too long when they 're more disgusting than funny in the first place . If you prefer your comedy with a few brain cells then just avoid this . If you want a silly comedy with more laughs then look at scary movie , airplane , hotshots 1 + 2 . 1/10 Completely unfunny , Thin storyline , A film that seems to be based on one idea ( i.e . what if we dressed up as white chicks for a film ? ) but simply did n't have enough material .
Sorry , gave it a 1 , which is the rating I give to movies on which I walk out or fall asleep . In this case I fell asleep 10 minutes from the end , really , really bored and not caring at all about what happened next .
Absolutely the worst film yet by Burton , who seems to be getting worse with each film he directs . A miserable script loaded with cliches is only the first of many objectionable aspects to this film . This is the kind of movie where every time something happens , you 'll be sure to hear someone shout out `` he 's lost his gun ! '' or whatever it is to let everybody know . Carter is really awful and so is Wahlberg , who ca n't play this straight and be convincing . Very nice effects and photography , but poor music in the John Williams mold by Burton 's crony Elfman . Heston appears in a nonsensichal scene to spout out his most famous catch-phrases from the first movie . Very poor results . If anyone else out there also saw `` Sleepy Hollow '' , they will probably have noticed , as I have , the declining quality of Burton 's films . I 've heard that this particular project was produced by others and that Burton was brought in as director , in which case his judgement should be questioned . But I think he has allowed any possible vision he might have had earlier in his career to slip ; the evidence is there in the films . In `` Sleepy Hollow '' , he could n't decide what kind of movie he was making , whether it was a comedy or a real horror movie , and the population of british character actors ( Chris Lee , etc . ) made you also think it was kind of a monster rally film ( those are never scary , as horror fans know ) . The movie could n't succeed on either horror or comedy because it was so schizophrenic , and no style had been developed to smooth the two together . `` Planet of the Apes '' is much the same way , and the result comes off more like `` Total Recall '' or `` Tango and Cash '' than like sci-fi . He 's also fallen into the rut of so many other `` big '' directors of trying to satisfy the entire possible audience . Word to Burton , if you 're out there -- pick something and do it straight , or use some style to peice it all together ( as in `` Mars Attacks '' or `` Beetlejuice '' ) or you might as well retire , because people like me that are fans of your movies will stop going .
I recently viewed Manufactured Landscapes at the Seattle International Film Festival . I was drawn to the movie as a photographer because I 'm both familiar and a fan of Burtynsky 's work . While I believe the movie does a good job getting it 's message across , I could n't help but feel that it was made as a complete afterthought to the photographs and subsequent popular book by Burtynsky . Obviously one reason for this is the extensive use of still photographs featuring zooms and pans across them . While this is a good effect when used economically , I felt like 75 % of the movie was just stills from Burtynsky 's book ( which I already own ) . That 's probably an exaggeration , but that 's how I felt . If you own the book or are familiar with his work you might be better off skipping this one .
Terrible story , poor acting and no humour at all ( apart from the final joke at the end ) Some sort of ugly angel is sent to earth to save a boy and his mum from being thrown out of their home . Supposed to be a kiddies movie , but even they will not be amused by this terrible film
When I saw this trailer on TV I was surprised . In May of 2008 I was at Six Flags in New Jersey and this was showing at a 4-D attraction ( you know , the attraction that the seats move ) . I take it that the version I saw was a shortened version ( 15 min . ) and also re-created to add the motion effects . It was a cute movie ... but that was it . It was educational and told about the first mission but the ending of a CGI spacewalk seemed a bit ... well ... trite . I was not a big fan of the movie but i would recommend this movie for any parent wanting to inform their children in a fun way about the first moonwalk . I will say , the character actors were well selected and the characters themselves were cute . So all-in-all , I would say , if you want to bring the younger kids ... go for it . But if you are wanting to take your older kids , take them to another movie ... they will thank you .
Takashi Shimizu had a great opportunity with a remake of his original film Ju-On The Grudge . While I have n't seen that film , I would have to wager that there 's more imagination and originality ( or some rip-off originality , in other words skill with known tropes of the Japanese ghost movie ) than in his own directed remake . Maybe the script was written to somehow have some kind of warped appeal , or I would guess accessibility , for an American audience . What starts off with some potential - the hint of something very screwed up going on with Bill Pullman 's sudden movement - just goes into a total jumble . And as a horror movie ? Gim me a break . Tension could have been built on the situation - a nurse going to take care of a disturbed woman in a house that is haunted - but he undercuts everything he wants to get his audience to feel . Scares ? How 's about some music timed just so you know when exactly to expect something . A black cat ? Yeah , why not just make the ghost-boy thing sound like a cat for creepiness which , in effect , is only creepy if you want cats . Plot ? Why not just shuffle between past and present without any semblance of an actual flow of how a story could be told ( meaning , while the flashbacks are inserted and are meant to be organic with the story overall , they are n't ) , or for that matter have us care about ANYONE in the cast . By the time the characters , or those that are there for exposition , get around to telling us what is going on or whatever , there 's little point to care . The film-making is shoddy ( i.e . the 180 degree rule is broken many times over and not in a forgivable or intriguing way ) , and the performances are wooden even when looking frightened or shocked ( Gellar especially is disappointing , but Pullman , who shows up later after his first scene , is sorely miscast ) . Even when Shimizu tries for some average old `` Boo '' scares , like when the woman is in the office building and chased by the Grudge ghost , it 's still silly . Just watch when she 's going on that elevator and the ghost is in the background of shots . Either you 'll go with it , and if so more power to you , or you 'll laugh hysterically at the results . Count me in the latter . I 'm not totally sure where this project went wrong - was it Shimizu having to retool it for the studios , or him not giving enough leeway with his revamp of his vision ? Or maybe Raimi had some say in it and made things more confusing and/or dull than they would be with someone else . The Grudge gives us a lot of information that does n't make sense or at the least give us some horror-fodder to chew on . It 's cineplex trash of a sad order .
I love special effects and witnessing new technologies that make science fiction seem real . The special effects of this movie are very good . I have seen most of this movie , since it 's been airing on HBO for the past couple of months . I must admit , I MAY have missed a few scenes , but I 'm usually drawn into movies , and have seen some scenes more than once . But every time I see some of `` Hollow Man , '' I feel depressed , almost like a `` film noir . '' I 'm not sure why ; perhaps it 's that I do n't want Kevin Bacon to be evil , and there 's disappointment in that . But I think it 's witnessing just HOW relentlessly evil he becomes . Regardless , I can recommend this movie for excitement ( although some parts move slowly ) , but I do NOT recommend for youngsters under the age of 14 ( perhaps 12 , if they are mature ) .
I was very skeptical about sacrificing my precious time to watch this film . I did n't enjoy the first one at all , and the last Jean Claude Van Damme film I liked was Blood Sports ! After managing to sit through it all ? Avoid , avoid , avoid ! !
I saw mommy ... well , she was n't exactly kissing Santa Clause ; he has his hand on her thigh and wicked thoughts in mind . This was enough to emotionally scar a young boy who wanted to believe . He grew up to be a bitter man who was upset at the quality of the toys being made , and the lack of Christmas spirit . Expecting a real slasher flick , I was very disappointed that less than a handful of people dies , and there was no nudity at all . What a bummer . I wanted to like this flick , but it was just too slow and really did n't have a good script . I did n't expect great acting , but I sure wanted some action . There just was n't any .
What did I just watch ? I spent 90 minutes of my precious life watching one of the dumbest movies I 've ever seen . The concept of a serial killer clown is actually quite scary seeing is there are a lot of people who are afraid of clowns ... .but having it be a 300 pound nursery rhyme reciting killer clown makes a mockery of the genre . I still am wondering how the character Mark was n't able to run away from the Clown ... he 's 300 pounds , he 's got ta get tired eventually . The whole ending made me get up and literally say aloud `` What did I just watch ? '' Apparently Brandon is Denise 's cousin ... . and they had got it on near the middle of the movie meaning he had sex with his cousin ... ..yeah that 's something people want so see *shudders* . Another thing I found hilariously stupid was the opening scene where the clown stabs a woman and she says `` What did you do ? '' Well bytch , what do you think he just did ? The last thing that was stupidly funny was one second the main character was slapping the hitch-hiker and calling her a c*nt and then 5 minutes later saying violence is n't helping anything ... .did the writer of the script give the line to the wrong guy ? None of this movie makes sense anyway . The movie was more or less a dumb low budget porno which I got sucked into buying ( all 3.99 ) and got no entertainment out of it besides the sex scenes . I 'm surprised the fat clown did n't join the orgy , would have fit right in . I hoped the movie would have some entertainment value like other B movies might have , but I was wrong . This is a moronic piece of garbage that 's not even worth watching . 1 out of 10
I knew I was going to see a low budget movie , but I expected much more from an Alex Cox film . The acting by the two leading men was terrible , especially the white guy . The girl should have won an Oscar compared to those two . This movie was filled with what I guess would be inside jokes for film industry people and a few other jokes that I actually understood and made me laugh out loud , which is rare . Without these laugh-out-loud moments I would have given this film 2/10 . What happened to the Alex Cox who made all the 80s classics ? SPOILER : There were a couple of questions I had after the movie was over . Why did the Mexican guy go to the other guy 's house at the beginning ? What did his daughter say he got 100 people fired from his last job ? Why was she breaking her own stuff when she was mad at him ? I guess I should have gone to the Q & A after the movie , but I did n't want to get up at 10am .
I 'm a fan of the series and have read all 7 books . I wanted to see this just to see how it was done . All i can say , is that the only people who should watch this are ones who have already read the series and are curious about it . Its pretty bad , and will turn you off reading them . Not to be mean , but Lucy is so ugly it detracts from the movie . Was she the directors daughter ? Seriously , I 'm sure the beavers in the movie were jealous of her teeth . She had an overbite that would put any beaver to shame . The movie just loses so much in translation . CS books do n't translate as easily as the Tolkein LOTR books , or even Harry Potter . One thing they did right ! Aslan ! very well done . Although the other human actors with painted faces ( beavers , wolf ) look silly , Aslan was really well done since it was not just a human actor walking around . ( i guess its like that old horse custume ? 2 people inside ? ) Also , i would be curious what kids think of this movie . Maybe they would enjoy it ? But as for adults , safe bet they wont , even if a CS fan .
If you are looking for eye candy , you may enjoy Sky Captain . Sky Captain is just a video game injected with live performers . The visials are nice and interesting to look at during the entire movie . Now , saying that , the visuals are the ONLY thing good in Sky Captain . After ten minutes , I knew I was watching one of the worse movies of all time . I was hoping this movie would get better , but it never achieved any degree of interest . After thirty minutes , the urge to walk out kept growing and growing . Now , I own over 2000 movies and have seen probably five times that number . Yet , this is only the second movie I felt like walking out of my entire life . Acting -- -there is none . The three main performers are pitiful . Jude Law ( also in the other movie I wanted to walk out on ) is just awful in the title role . I would rather sit through Ben Affleck in Gigli than watch Law again . Paltrow tries SO hard to be campy , that it backfires in her face . The last article I had read said that Paltrow is thinking of staying home and being a mother rather than acting . After this performance , I would applaud that decision . Story -- -Soap operas are better written . The story behind Sky Captain starts out bad and gets continually worse as it progresses . Directing -- -none . Everything was put into the special effects that story , acting and directing suffer greatly . Even `` the Phantom Menace '' had better acting and that is NOT saying a great deal . I would have to give this movie a `` 0 '' out of `` 10 '' . Avoid paying theatre prices and wait until video release .
I was supposed to review this for a website , and I watched this with optimism that perhaps it would at least be a cheesy yet entertaining rip off , and it did n't even do that well enough . `` 666 : The Child '' is probably one of the worst supernatural thrillers I 've ever seen ( Even worse than `` Godsend '' ) with scenes that rip from `` The Omen '' without shame . The ending is even very similar to the way `` The Omen '' ends . Not to mention that the acting , writing , and story are all just hackneyed . If these movies make money , I 'm sad to see where Asylum is headed . It 's embarrassing .
This budget-starved Italian action/sci-fi hybrid features David Warbeck as a Miami reporter who is chosen by the ghosts of the people of Atlantis ( ! ) to stop an evil businessman ( Academy Award nominee John Ireland ) from using a telepathic fetus grown using spores from an asteroid to rule the world . You got all that ? Despite such a loopy plot , this is actually quite a bore and the RAIDERS OF ATLANTIS sneers at it with contempt . Honestly , the most ( intentionally ) creative thing about this flick is the slight reworking of Herbie Hancock 's BEVERLY HILLS COP theme for the opening titles . The most unintentionally creative bit involves a scene in a lab that is inexplicably shown twice back-to-back . Perhaps director Alberto De Martino wanted to get all avant garde on us in the twilight of his career ? I was going to declare this Ireland 's worst film on his resume but then I saw SATAN 'S CHEERLEADERS was listed on there . I would also like to safely declare that I am probably the only person in the history of the world to do a double feature of this and Hitchcock 's VERTIGO .
The interplay between the characters is a moral disaster . You end up disliking most of the characters and you do n't particularly like any of them . Even the two main characters played by David and Gwen are so badly written that you really do n't care one bit about them . The movie has no plot , no direction and no purpose . The single redeeming quality of the movie was to treat it as a glimpse into the messed up lives of a few losers - and that 's hardly stimulating even as an afternoon waste .
... through the similarly minded antics of Eric Stanze . A not-particularly talented director has helmed a not-particularly good movie , yet I still found myself sitting through it to the closing credits , if for nothing more than to see what happens next . A rapist escapes from prison and calls up his old flame . After capturing her ( even though she came willingly ) and threatening her into having sex ( another event she was also willing to do ) he reveals that he has kidnapped three guys who wronged her in the past . He then decides to kill her ( huh ? ) but is foiled and dies instead . The girl 's mind snaps ( or something like that ) and she takes out her rage on the unlucky chaps in the basement . Alright , the writing sucks : it 's long winded , loaded with ten-cent words and there is WAY too much of it . The acting sucks : what a minute , what acting ? The filming sucks : home video is bad enough , but 20 minutes of graveyard footage is just a damn insult . And the budget is a joke : get it ... 'budget ' , that was the punchline . And yet there was a charm to the thing . Back in the 70 's these kind of movies came out in theatres with actual budgets and talent attached to them , not in this day and age though . If you want to watch this kind of violent , sexually exploitive trash ( do n't lie , some of us do ) then this is all your gon na get nowadays . Some brief hardcore shots in a sex scene , torture with fecal material , fun with axes , anal rape by broom stick and a lengthy shot of the crazy chick masturbating with the same broom stick are some of the better items on the menu . It 's not good and it wo n't be remembered , but not since the heyday of Joe D'amato have people made movies like this . 4/10
I do n't know what it is about Donald Sutherland 's acting style , or vocal style , but he always seems to be acting from behind a massive wad of soggy Kleenex . He 's just ... I do n't know , THICK ? Somnambulistic ? On meds ? Weird . That said , I just saw the flick again for the first time since its original release , and frankly , I do n't remember it ending anything LIKE that . A bad ending , too , because nothing gets tied off . What about the dead husband ? The annoying child ( and was the kid dubbed ? ) ? The Scotland Yard and military pursuers ? I would have liked something wrapping things up and giving some dramatic closure to it all , not just the big panoramic pull-away . And what woman sleeps with the man she knows just killed her husband ? Even if she was trying to allay Needle 's suspicions to protect her kid , she could always have had a headache . That last encounter made me feel way too itchy and uncomfortable ...
This film was a waste of time , even rented on DVD . If super-speedy camera shots get any faster than this , we might as well pay twenty bucks to get in the laundromat , get popcorn , and watch the dryer spin . Jet Li is so much better than this . One can only hope that he wo n't be making deals anytime soon to make another cliche-ridden film like The One . If there 's one film you should avoid , this is `` The One '' .
I saw this at the Edinburgh Film Festival . It was awful ! Every clichéd , violent , rich boy fantasy was on display , you just knew how it was going to end especially with all the shots of the chef 's wife and the rape of the first girl . The worst part was the Q & A with the director/writer and writer/producer they tried to come across as intellectuals but you could tell they 're the types that get off on violence . I bet anything they frequent brothels and do drugs . Do n't waste your time . I had to keep my boyfriend from walking out of it .
OK another film bought by me and Joe Swatman . OK this is n't the worst film i 've reviewed this week but it still sucked royaly . we had a lot of fun watching this piece of crap . The Monster Jigsaw is a mish mash of all these dysfunctional students ideas , u just know ur in for trouble when someone equips him with a buzzsaw and a sawed of shotgun , the film was n't as gory as we hoped , i mean on of the deaths is a heart attack . Again i think the acting sucks , sum of the actors must be porn stars and one get into her undies for what ever reason . The absolute worst part is the ending , it leaves it open for a bit of a Jigsaw 2 but thats never gunna happen lets face it . My ratings : funny 4/100 mock ( how much fun we had mocking it ) 73/100 acting 8/100 generally 12/100
This film is a good example of how through media manipulation you can sell a film that is no more than a very unfunny TV sitcom . In Puerto Rico the daily newspaper with the widest circulation has continuously written about the marvels of this film , almost silencing all others . Coincidentally the newspaper with the second largest circulation belongs to the same owners . The weekly CLARIDAD is the only newspaper on the island that has analyzed the film 's form and content , and pointed out all its flaws , clichés , and bad writing . Just because a film makes a portion of the audience laugh with easy and obvious jokes , and because one can recognize actors and scenery , does not make it an acceptable film .
The film-school intellects can drool all they want about the important ( imagined ) meaning of this film , but it 's just that : intellectual drool . This film is creatively bankrupt , and some mistake it 's endless self-indulgent wanking as substance . Yeah . Obviously Godard was n't a Stones fan . Too bad , because this could have been great . He 's capturing the birth of this timeless song and he chooses instead to cover the music with some guy reading out of a True Detective mag or some such crap . Then there 's the endless shots of what looks like 60 's librarians spray-painting words on people 's cars . And then there 's the seemingly neverending `` interview '' where the actress was brilliantly instructed to answer only yes or no to all the really deep and intellectual questions . There 's some dude in a purple suit is reading more crap from a book , which goes on for , oh , only about 20 minutes . And black panthers or something in a junkyard . It almost sounds intriguing ? Well , it 's not . But for unwashed film-school hipsters who do n't care squat about the lost opportunities of having full access to the Stones bringing Sympathy for the Devil into the world and would rather hear some English guy reading instead whilst gazing at the covers of nudie mag 's , this film 's a real winner ! More accurately ... maybe Godard just blows .
`` Spielberg loves the smell of sentiment in the morning . But sentiment at the expense of narrative honesty ? Nobody should love that . '' - Lucius Shepard `` The Color Purple '' takes place in the Deep South during the early 1900s , and tells the story of Celie and Nettie , two African American sisters . The film opens with the girls playing in a field of purple flowers , an idyllic haven which is promptly shattered by the appearance of their stepfather . This motif – innocence interrupted by men – permeates the entire film . The film then launches into a series of short sequences . Celie is revealed to have been twice impregnated by her stepfather , gives birth in a dirty barn , has her newborn child taken away and is forced to marry a local widow named Albert Johnson , a violent oaf who rapes her repeatedly , forcing her to cook , clean and look after his children . All these horrific scenes are given little screen time , and are instead surrounded by moments of pixie-dust cinematography , a meddlesome symphonic score , incongruous comedy and overly exuberant camera work . The cumulative effect is like the merging of a Disney cartoon and a rape movie , a jarring aesthetic which caused Stanley Kubrick to remark that `` The Color Purple '' made him so nauseated that he had to turn it off after ten minutes . Ten minutes ? He lasted a long time . The film is often said to deal which `` racism '' , `` sexism '' and `` black culture '' , but this is not true . Alice Walker , the author of the novel upon which the film is based , claims to be a bisexual but is actually a closet lesbian . Her book is a lesbian fantasy , a story of female liberation and self-discovery , which paints men as violent brutes who stymie women . For Walker , the only way out of this maze is for women to bond together in a kind of lesbian utopia , black sisterhood and female independence celebrated . Spielberg 's film , however , re-frames Walker 's story through the lens of comforting American mythologies . This is a film in which the salvific power of Christianity overcomes the natural cruelty of men . A film in which Albert finds himself in various ridiculous situations , moments of misplaced comedy inserted to make him look like a bumbling fool . A film in which all the characters are derived from racist minstrel shows , the cast comprised of lecherous men ( always beaming with devilish smiles and toothy grins ) , stereotypical fat mammies , jazz bands and gospel choirs . This is a film in which black people are naturally childlike , readily and happily accepting their social conditions . A film in which black people are over-sexed , carnal sensualists dominated by violent passions . A film in which poverty and class issues are entirely invisible ( Albert lives in a huge house ) and black men are completely inept . This is not the Old South , this is the Old South as derived from `` Gone With The Wind '' , MGM Muscals , `` Song of the South '' , Warner Cartoons , `` Halleluha ! '' and banned Disney movies . In other words , it 's the South as seen by a child raised on 50s TV . It 's all so cartoonish , so racist in the way it reduces these human beings to one dimensional ethnic stereotypes , that black novelist Ishmael Reed famously likened it to a Nazi conspiracy . Of course , in typical Spielberg fashion the film ends with family bonds being healed . This reconciliation was in Walker 's novel , but Spielberg goes further by having every character in the story reconcile with their kin . Beyond Walker 's hate letter to black men and Spielberg 's bizarre caricaturing of black life , we are shown nothing of the black community . We have only the vaguest ideas as to how any of these characters make a living and no insight into how they interact with others in their community . Instead , Spielberg 's camera jumps about , desperately fighting for our attention ( one of Celie 's kitchen contraptions seems like it belongs in a `` Home Alone '' movie ) , every emotion over played , the director never stopping to just observe something or to allow a little bit of life to simply pass by . Couple this with Quincy Jones ' ridiculously `` white '' music , and you have one of the strangest films in cinema history : an angry feminist tract filmed by a white Jew in the style of Disney and Griffith , scored by a black man trying to emulate John Williams . Problematic too is the lack of white characters . Consider this : the men in this film are n't portrayed as being rough to each other , nor do they dominate women because they are brutalised by a racist society which reduces their manhood . No , they are cruel by nature . And the women , whether quietly suffering like Celie or rebellious and tough like her sister , persevere and survive only because the men are too stupid to destroy them . A better film would not have focused solely on the oppression of women as it occurs among the oppressed , rather , it would have shown that it is societal abuse which has led to spousal abuse , that enslaved black women are forced to perform the very same tasks as their male counterparts ( whilst still fulfilling traditional female roles ) and that African American domestic violence occurs largely because of economic factors , women unable to support themselves and their children alone . And so there 's a hidden ideology at work here . Late in the film one character tells another that since he did n't respect his wife , she wound up getting severely beaten and imprisoned by whites . The implication is that blacks need to return to their African roots to restore their own dignity and that it is their fault that whites unjustly crush them . ie- Respect one another in your poor minority community and you wo n't run afoul of the dominant white culture . 3/10 - A failure to confront sex and lesbianism , inappropriate musical numbers , countless sequence loaded with extraneous visual pizazz , incongruous comic business , emphatic music cues , and wildly hyped emotionality , all contribute to rendering `` The Color Purple '' worthless .
I 'm a Don Johnson fan , but this is undoubtedly the WORST movie , done by anybody , that I 've ever seen . The acting was bad , as was the cinematography . Don should stick to doing action , because as The King , he just did n't cut it .
Three story lines and not enough tying them together , `` Inside Man '' was very jumpy and an incomplete attempt to be artistic and realistic . Though having its moments , the movie started off looking like a fast thriller which quickly grounded to a slow crawl , jumped quickly between highs and lows , and only barely picked up steam again near the last 20 minutes . I will give credit to Denzel Washington , he played his part extremely well with a full grasp of his human side and not just the typical `` super-detective '' with all the answers . Clive Owen also did quite well with his duality part as `` evil genius '' and `` criminal mastermind '' ( both not the same in retrospect ) . Overall though , each person individually created a great sub-section . Yet , when the parts finally came together and everything counted , there was no sudden `` ah-ha ! '' or summation of everything . It all ended up with very little of the energy it began with , with a lot of plot-holes , tons of questions , and as I said earlier , no where near Spike Lee 's normal level . I have to completely disagree with the so-called `` professional critics '' ... this is not the movie they play it up to be .
That 's right , you heard me this movie is a freaking ' ABOMINATION . First off , the band , who the hell is going to go see or listen to a band called `` THE NAKED BROTHERS BAND '' ? ! ? ! Not only is the name terrible but so are the musicians , they ca n't even play anything ! Also , the lead singer sounds more girly than Geddy Lee , and even more his voice is horrible ! Not only are they terrible musicians but they 're terrible actors . Led by a crappy director and thin plot , this has got to be the dumbest movie ever . I wish this website would let you use a vote of ZERO OR BELOW out of 10 , because giving this filth a 1/10 is being WAY too generous . I 'm not sure that you can call this a comedy film . If you 're looking for comedy with music , go to that `` Weird Al '' Yankovic guy 'cause he does it a whole lot better than these untalented tweens .
LOL ! Not a bad way to start it . I thought this was original , but then I discovered it was a clone of the 1976 remake of KING KONG . I never saw KING KONG until I was 15 . I saw this film when I was 9 . The film 's funky disco music will get stuck in your head ! Not to mention the film 's theme song by the Yetians . This is the worst creature effects I 've ever seen . At the same time this film remains a holy grail of B-movies . Memorable quotes : `` Take a tranquilizer and go to bed . '' `` Put the Yeti in your tank and you have Yeti power . '' I remember seeing this film on MOVIE MACRABE hosted by Elvira . There is one scene where it was like KING KONG in reverse ! In KING KONG he grabs the girl and climbs up the building , but in this film he climbs down the building and grabs the girl ( who was falling ) ! Also around that year was another KONG clone MIGHTY PEKING MAN ( 1977 ) which came from Hong Kong . There is a lot of traveling matte scenes and motorized body parts . This film will leave you laughing . It is like I said , just another KING KONG clone . Rated PG for violence , language , thematic elements , and some scary scenes .
The tenuous connection between this film and the first Grease is established right at the beginning of the film when Didi Conn one of four cast members repeating their roles approaches young Maxwell Caulfield who is a British exchange student . Although in the previous film Olivia Newton St. John 's foreign speech pattern is not explained , it 's explained here Caulfield is her cousin . What 's Conn still doing in school , I guess she just likes hanging around Rydell High even though now she 's a beautician . Caulfield 's a smart kid , so of course the hood types led by Adrian Zmed have him labeled as a nerd . And that 's especially bad when Zmed 's girl friend decides she likes Caulfield . But being a nerd just is n't going to cut it . That 's when Caulfield decides to put on a modern day Zorro act . He gets a junked bicycle and puts it back together and teaches himself to ride . He gets himself a leather biker outfit with a set of goggles to hide his face . If getting Michelle Pheiffer is not in the cards , Caulfield wo n't have any trouble making friends at any gay male leather bar the way he 's outfitted . Grease 2 introduced Michelle Pheiffer and Maxwell Caulfield and started them on the successful career paths both have enjoyed . If you saw the first Grease film , a much better film , than you definitely have an idea how this film will turn out . In addition to Conn , Eve Arden , Sid Caesar , and Dody Goodman , all faculty members from the original Grease return in their roles . The music score is n't remotely as good as the songs that come from the original . It 's not that Grease 2 is bad , it 's just not all that great .
I have seen bad movies before , but this one takes the `` Worst Movie of a Lifetime '' award by far ! ! Anthony Hopkins has to be completely mentally ill to have his name attached to this one - anywhere ! I will never see another movie with him in it , directing it , etc. , etc . ! I ca n't believe the other actors & actresses that I liked , ( in this picture ) , that stooped so low to be a part of this disaster ! There must be some great drugs out there ! For anyone to not be embarrassed to be a part of such a film , is beyond me ! Save your money on this one ! HUGE FLOP from beginning to end ! Shame on you Mr. Hopkins ! Also , shame on Christian Slater ! I ca n't believe you put your reputations on the line for this one !
Another Priyadarshan/Vohra flick another movie that was seen for TP rather than actual desire , the only reason i did see this movie was the fact that the regulars were not there in this movie ( Akshay Paresh and many others ) , but needless to say i had low expectations from this movie . I was happy with the casting in general except , Rajpal Yadav who once again annoys to no limit , he does however extract some laughs , but these were those standard slapstick non-original jokes , in fact this whole movie is like playing the dhol , I mean it takes hardly any talent to make loud noise , or even play the odd good beat on the dhol for a small time does it ? ? Its only those who can carry different beats in a nice sequential manner , for an extended period who are considered great . Which brings us to the other instrument , the Dumroo hardly requires any talent , it has no variations , and it may be enjoyable for a while the monkey dances ( hmm sounds like Rajpal Yadav , good analogy ) , but its not a instrument that will entertain you for long or even get you dancing like the Dhol does . This movie was like the dhol and the dumroo being played , sometimes the Dhol was played sometimes the dumroo , sometimes both together , but mostly the Dumroo played alone and the monkey danced . And like any 24 year old sooner than later I got bored . The movie has some good Dhol ( good ) moments but after a while all i heard was the annoying Dumroo ( entertaining initially , then tolerable then irritating ) , the large ordinary parts really ensure this movie is mainly good for a few funny clips on `` MERE BHAINS KO ANDA KYUN MARA '' ( if you have n't watched it watch it on Filmy , it comes in the evenings and is really quite funny ) . This movie had its moments , the actors did a fine job , except Rajpal Yadav ( who can act though , I 've seen him in Main Meri Patni ) who annoys more than entertains , I 've said it many time and I 'll say it again I really think Sharman Joshi and Tushar Kapoor have a fine career ahead of them in the multi-star comedies especially . Some scenes were really funny such as the aborted attempts to impress the girls father , the zany attempts to woo the girl and take her away from each other . But after this was over there was a failed attempt to make this movie into much more with a mystery added , this mean that once the girl was in , the following 45-60 mins was increasingly torturous , the climax was `` SO BAD ITS ALMOST GOOD CATEGORY '' , I mean what were they thinking if you had to have tense ending at least make some attempt to make it palatable . The movie is also extremely predictable , there 's hardly a scene you cant predict and you wont be breaking into spontaneous burst of laughter here , its more like you see it coming and almost start laughing before the gag . The movie follows a gradual decline throughout the movies except for the odd bump , down or up , and then rapidly tumbles downhill once they have made friends with the girl . Most of the really bad scenes were towards the end , one the movie tries to be more than a run of the mill comedy , also many of the jokes were very very stale and reeked of repetition , THE LAST 10-15 WAS ESPECIALLY DISTATEFULL AND COMPLETELY SPOILS THIS MOVIE . I did n't find Tanushree Datta quite the siren she was to play , and her acting talent is in serious question , especially in view of her non-appealing looks , if you cant be a HOT and cant act how much time can you survive . Technically also this movie was weak , with the constant female gaze and shoddy lighting and camera-work . The songs except the title track were no good either , when the songs played in the 2nd half I could feel the collective gasp from the audience . In all a movie that 's just ordinary merely because of the cast , and the very low expectations . Avoiding it wont be a bad idea . And if it has to be watched watching it on TV for free or a very cheap matinée or something is a must , if you pay full multiplex rates you will feel disappointed . -s lots of stale jokes , RAJPAL YADAV , LAST 45 MINS AND LAST 15 MINS ESPECIALLY , bad technically , bad songs . +/-s tries to be more than what it was , not the regular cast ( I 'm happier for it ) , Tanushree Datta . +s some good scenes towards the beginning , title song , good acting and cast except RY . total 4.5/10 ( I 'm trying to be objective here , i do n't like Rajpal Yadav or Tanushree Datta and this movie did meet my very low expectations , so I 'm giving it the benefit of all doubts , on absolute terms this movie was not more than a 4 )
This movie is like real life , by which I mean - not a lot happens in the available 2 hours or so , and not much game plan or plot is evidenced by the frequently invisible cast ( their invisibility being due to the `` experimental '' lighting as mentioned by many reviewers ) . A big bore . No big surprise that Altman helms this - he is a very variable performer ( yes we all loved `` Gosford Park '' , but `` Pret A Porter '' anyone ? Kansas City ? Dr T. and the Women ? Aaargh ) , but the fact that the raw material is a John Grisham tale , and the excellent cast that you will perceive through the gathering gloaming of your insistent slumber - makes this truly a masterpiece of bad film . And no , it is not `` so bad it 's good '' . It 's just bad .
It pains me to write such a scathing review but by not doing so I 'm simply encouraging these people . First off , just because a film is made on a small budget does not automatically make it good nor endearing . In fact in this case , the small budget is probably the films sole achievement in that it prevented large sums of money from being squandered on a one legged race horse with the shits . Have you ever seen a comedy at the theatre ? Ever heard people laugh and thought `` what the dickens are you on '' ? Well even these twats were n't laughing . Things got so bad by mid way my cat took his first ever bath . This is not film , this is children ... .no monkeys making images that leave you feeling like moving to France . Got to go , there 's a clown at my door ... ... ... ... .
This is , quite literally , the worst movie I have ever watched in my life . It may be the worst movie possible . Some movies are so bad that they 're good ; this movie is so bad that it goes past enjoyable camp and simply becomes unwatchably awful . It is the anti-enantiodromia . We bought it with the intent to heckle , and all of my family gathered around for a fun evening of clever remarks ; instead , we sat in stunned silence , pitying poor Peter Sellers . This is worse than the animated Lord of the Rings . It is worse than the Matrix sequels . It is worse than Krull . It is worse than any Batman movie . Do not , under any circumstances , let this movie approach within ten feet of your television .
the single worst film i 've ever seen in a theater . i saw this film at the austin film festival in 2004 , and it blew my mind that this film was accepted to a festival . it was an interesting premise , and seemed like it could go somewhere , but just fell apart every time it tried to do anything . first of all , if you 're going to do a musical , find someone with musical talent . the music consisted of cheesy piano playing that sounded like they were playing it on a stereo in the room they were filming . the lyrics were terribly written , and when they were n't obvious rhymes , they were groan-inducing rhymes that showed how far they were stretching to try to make this movie work . and you 'd think you 'd find people who could sing when making a musical , right ? not in this case . luckily they were half talking/half singing in rhyme most of the time , but when they did sing it made me cringe . especially when they attempted to sing in harmony . and that just addresses the music . some of the acting was pretty good , but a lot of the dialog was terrible , as well as most of the scenes . they obviously did n't have enough coverage on the scenes , or they just had a bad editor , because they consistently jumped the line and used terrible choices while cutting the film . at least the director was willing to admit that no one wanted the script until they added the hook of making it a musical . i hope the investors make sure someone can write music before making the same mistake again .
Honestly I ca n't understand why this movie rates so well here , nor why Bakshi himself thought it was his finest film . I 'm a huge fan of Bakshi 's earlier work - particularly 'Heavy Traffic ' and 'Wizards ' , but frankly 'Wizards ' ( 1977 ) was the last good film he made . After that he turned to the mainstream , beginning with the diabolical 'Lord of the Rings ' and then knuckling down with sword and sorcery heavyweight Frank Frazetta , for 'Fire and Ice ' . What can I say ? The story is puerile , the animation is TV quality - I insist that it 's considerably worse than his 70 's stuff - and whereas 'Wizards ' had real imagination , quirkiness , some gorgeous background art , and an underground , adult sensibility , 'Fire and Ice ' is just designed for 14 year old boys , and has the intellectual clout of Robinson Crusoe on Mars . Yes , if you liked the Gor books , you might like this . In my view though , this was just another blip in the slide in quality after 'Wizards ' from which Bakshi never recovered ( though he 's done some decent TV stuff fairly recently ) 4.5 out of 10
OK . I know that the wanna-be John Hughes movies of the 80s were all unilaterally flat , so the expectations for this film ran pretty low . Still , after sitting through this crap there 's one key thing I ca n't seem to get out of my head : I just sat through an 80s Rob Lowe movie that had no nudity and only hints of sex in them . The acting is awful , the characters boring and flat , the portrayal of Oxford an absolute insult , and the rowing scenes unexciting , uneventful , and inaccurate . Unless you 've got some wierd Ally Sheedy or Amanda Pays ( or I guess , Rob Lowe ) fetish , there 's really no reason to see this one .
It 's common practice for a film about repression to be somewhat muted in style and tone . There 's a difference , however , between using restraint and encouraging narcolepsy among audience members . In `` The Secret Lives of Dentists , '' starring Campbell Scott and Hope Davis , director Alan Rudolph plays as close to the vest as possible , with the result being a film that never amounts to much beyond a rumination on how teeth are a metaphor for married life . Scott gives a fine performance in the role of David Hurst , a dentist married to another dentist ( Davis ) . Rudolph sets up the dynamic of their relationship quickly - he is completely absorbed in the day-to-day duties of being the parenthood , she is quietly disillusioned with their frantic family life - and then ratchets up the tension when Scott may or may not witness his wife with another man . From this point on , the film focuses on whether or not David is going to confront his wife Dana about her possible adultery , or whether she will beat him to the punch and leave for good . From time to time , David is treated to visits from an imaginary `` friend '' in the form of a former patient played by Denis Leary ( borrowing heavily from Brad Pitt 's Tyler Durden in `` Fight Club '' ) . While there is enough uncertainty about Dana 's infidelity and David 's instability to warrant examination , the last two thirds of the film are embarrassingly empty of theme or narrative . Instead , Rudolph creates drama out of a nasty fever that travels slowly through the Hurst family , culminating in a pointless hospital visit at the film 's climax . The film never picks up on the hints at what David is really capable of if he was n't so dedicated to his family ; neither does it spend much time looking at Dana 's precarious balancing act between her family life and her other , more fulfilling ambitions . By choosing to spend the majority of the film worrying over a fever gone awry , Rudolph kills the momentum of his film . By the time the fifth member of the family shows up sweating and sickly , the film has used up all the good graces of Scott 's well-measured performance . David and Dana end up retracing their steps over and over again until a less than cathartic finale . With nothing to build on over the last hour , the conclusion seems awkward and patched-on . `` The Secret Lives of Dentists '' takes a common theme and does nothing to improve upon it . Altogether , a disappointing , unimaginative film .
1975 's MASTER OF THE FLYING GUILLOTINE is an amazing and wonderful film to watch . This is n't because the fighting is particularly inspired or because the film makes any sense at all . It 's because the film is so silly and so over-the-top that it is a camp classic -- bad , but enjoyably bad . The film stars a blind guy who has a Frisbee-like device on a chain that chops off people 's heads as he expertly throws this at his foes ! Who cares that the physics are impossible or that the film features such silly things as fighters with 12 foot long papier-mache arms or that the guy was blind ! It 's just a ball to watch from start to finish -- and one of my favorite `` bad '' films and great to see with friends . Because of this film , I was eager to see THE FATAL FLYING GUILLOTINES ( 1977 ) , though sadly it turned out NOT to be a sequel but a bit of a knock-off -- taking many of the ideas from the original but neglecting to make the film as coherent or watchable . Sure , it 's silly fun , but it never comes close to MASTER OF THE FLYING GUILLOTINE in entertainment value . Like the original film , there are these weird flying devices that sever heads , but they are quite different -- with circular saw blades and almost a mind of their own . There also is no blind guy but instead are a bunch of baddies who really have no depth nor does the audience understand exactly what 's occurring in this English-dubbed version , as the plot is completely incomprehensible . However , at the same time , some of the martial arts action is very good . While not up to the high standards of most Bruce Lee or Sonny Chiba films , the action is worthwhile despite the ludicrous and often confusing plot . Overall , this is a film that martial arts fans may like ( despite its many , many , many , many shortcomings ) , but also one that others will probably turn off or laugh hysterically at instead of enjoying the action because the film is just so ludicrous . BUT , most importantly , it never comes close to being as funny or watchable as MASTER OF THE FLYING GUILLOTINE . Too bad .
I felt obliged to watch this movie all the way through , since I had found it in a bargain bin and bought it for my own , but I came close many times to turning it off and just writing off the money I had paid for it . If you are a fan of gore and sadism , this movie is OK . If there is one thing that the makers of this film know , it is the creative use of fake blood and body parts for a sickening effect . If that does n't thrill you , then stay away . This movie is shot on a home video camera , with grade school props and terrible actors . It 's dubbed from German , but even allowing for that , the sound is awful . This film is about as budget as budget gets , except for the aforementioned special effects . If they had spent a little more money on actors and a real script instead of blood and guts , the film might have been a little more enjoyable . The story is about three men that land on an island inhabited by an army of tin-masked sadists . They are captured , and the rest of the movie is about their attempt to escape . I call this a story in the loosest sense , since it is really a series of scenes of torture and combat strung together by inane obscenity-filled dialog . There is nothing whatsoever redeeming about this movie , unless you like mindless gore . Consider yourself warned .
The Darkling was a very interesting and entertaining film while F. Murray Abraham was in it . Spoilers : About halfway through , F.Murray gets zapped , because The Darkling is some kind of demon-like creature who enjoys living vicariously . He takes bums and losers and perverts them further while giving them all they want in terms of success . He feeds from their enjoyment of the Seven Deadly Sins . However , part of it is that he needs to get people who may be flawed but not completely evil . Otherwise he can not `` pervert '' their natural goodness . That 's what the little guy said in his Barry White voice , which I found both charming and amusing . Mostly amusing . Like imagine Barry White if he were a little dwarf and he was telling Aiden Gillen `` Dee Plane , Dee Plane , Bos , Here eet come , Dee Plane ! '' All through the movie , Dee Dwarf ( actually a robotronic cherub ) talks to Aiden Gillen in the Barry White voice , saying things like `` It 's OK to be bad , you know you want it . '' `` Now you 've committed murder , you 're really moving up in the world '' and other remarks that sound like commercials for `` Being Evil '' Stores or something . It really is hilarious in a sick way . Anyhow , Aiden Gillen is no F. Murray Abraham , and the movie tanks as soon as Murray gets the axe ( or knifed ? ) . F. Murray brings a certain happy malevolence to his role in this film . He is a good actor . Aiden Gillen on the other hand has a permanent happy smirk on his face , and he looks like maybe his remedial English Comp . class had never hit the Mythological Characters and he could not imagine what the movie was about . The ENDING is really creepy and yet almost comical . If this movie were a parody , the ending was perfect . If it was not a parody , then it was creepy ; but a cheap use of a little girl to deliver a gross-out that the movie itself could not deliver . The people who made this movie lost whatever it was that they wanted to do with it somewhere before the ending . It just ends like they just realized that they had run out of money and had to film a quickie ending .
I did not think this movie was worth anything bad script , bad acting except for Janine Turner , no fantasy , stupid plot , dumb-ass husband and unfair divorce settings . If you have never seen this movie before do n't even bother it 's not worth it at all . The only thing that was good about it was that Janine Turner , did a good job acting . Terry 's husband is a stuck up smart-ass defense attorney who has won a lot of cases and even gotten guility murderers off . He think he is so smart but he is really just a nut . Her best friend has an affair with her husband and betrays her . Nice girl huh . Yeah she 's a real peach , not . She 's no day at the beach either .
Rebar is an astronaut who goes on the world 's first space mission to Saturn , but of course this being a horror movie things turn ugly and he returns to earth as the only survivor . Stricken with some bizarre condition that causes him to slowly melt and lose his mind unless he regularly consumes human flesh , he kills what apparently is the only nurse in the hospital and escapes to the neighboring town to stalk more victims . I liked the premise and the monster and gore effects are actually pretty good , but the space scenes are just pasted together out of stock NASA footage and the hospital looks curiously like a warehouse . A very weak script , little character development and overall poor acting keep this one from rising above being anything other than a mediocre slasher flick with the novelty of having a living candle as the killer , and more or less only has its gore effects to hold your interest . 4 out of 10 , strictly for the most die-hard monster movie fans .
The story is seen before , but that does'n matter if you can figure out to make a proper storyboard . It is clear that the director have n't spent his work on the storyboard . Alongside this , the cameraman spent far too much time leaning angles that do not match the message of the movie . The funniest is , however , if you take a look at the movie 's website , you can read that it was on purpose that the director has chosen to make the film with bad camera angles . Because it remind us about hunting . But I have never heard of hunting with poor camera angles ; - ) It will have 1 stars because the story is OK . It is a pity that Ti West , has not spent more time to review his story . It is as if the movie was more important than the planning . Because you have a camera does not mean you should make a movie right away ... come . Everyone can make a movie , but not all will be just as good . So a word of advice to Ti West are : stop and labeling what you want . Use your time to start planning and not filming until everything has come down on a storyboard . You certainly have the ability and desire - so do n't abuse your talent .
Even if you could get past the idea that these boring characters personally witnessed every Significant Moment of the 1960s ( ok , so Katie did n't join the Manson Family , and nobody died at Altamont ) , this movie was still unbelievably awful . I got the impression that the `` writers '' just locked themselves in a room and watched `` Forrest Gump , '' `` The Wonder Years , '' and Oliver Stone 's 60s films over and over again and called it research . A Canadian television critic called the conclusion of the first episode `` head spinning '' . He was right .
Stanley Kramer directs an action thriller and leaves out two key things : action and thrills . THE DOMINO PRINCIPLE features Gene Hackman as a convict sprung from prison in order to perform some mysterious task . Richard Widmark , Edward Albert , and Eli Wallach are his operatives -- - they presumably work for the government , but that , like most of the movie 's plot line , is never made clear . Hackman asks a lot of questions that NEVER get answered so the film goes absolutely nowhere . While it strives to be like NIGHT MOVES and THE PARALLAX VIEW , THE DOMINO PRINCIPLE mixes up ambiguity and mystery with confusion and boredom . The film is extremely well photographed but even that works against it . Kramer 's direction is devoid of any style . It 's a very sunny movie ! The acting is fine with Hackman proving he 's pretty much incapable of being bad . Widmark and Wallach are suitably nasty and Albert is well cast as Widmark 's cruel lackey . Even the usually obnoxious Mickey Rooney is pretty good as Hackman 's sidekick . One oddity however is the casting of Candice Bergen as Hackman 's wife . We 're told she 's done time in prison and she seems to be trying to put on some sort of southern twang . Kramer 's idea of making her appear to be trailer trash is to have her wear an ugly brown wig . It 's a role better suited for the likes of Valerie Perrine or Susan Tyrell .
This was quite possibly the worst movie I have ever seen . I watched it with a large group of friends and after it was over not a one of us understood the plot . Aside from the lack of plot , the acting was atrocious , the `` special effects '' were not so special , and the writing was absolutely horrible . The movie 's only redeeming factor is that it 's so incredibly bad that it 's quite funny . You ca n't help but laugh at a zombie being run over while actors are spewing crappy dialogue . I would n't recommend this film to anyone looking for a good movie , but it 's something that a group of friends can get together and have a good laugh about . It 's now a running joke among my friends and I . 1 out of 10 .
That shall be a documentary ? I saw it ( which is forbidden in Germany ) and I have to say , that it was the worst documentary I 've ever seen . It is nothing but one big lie from the beginning to the end . Who can doubt after this trash that all Jews were supposed to be killed in the concentration camps ?
A cowboy sympathetic to the plight of a nearby Indian tribe is wrongly accused in the rape and murder of the chief 's daughter , leading to much hate and violence . This crackpot nudie feature is fun to look at , though thoroughly impossible to defend on any artistic level . The terrible costumes and the fact that all the Indians are obviously white , makes this look more like a live action cartoon than the serious production that it 's press materials pretends it to be . In short , the plentiful nudity ( the real reason for watching this ) is good . Everything else is not . There 's definitely better examples of both genres . More interesting is that The Ramrodder was filmed at the infamous Spahn Movie Ranch and features not one , but two members of the Manson family , Catherine Share and Bobby Beausoleil , who was probably already in the can for murder at the time this hit the soda-stained screens of the Pussycat Theater !
Macy , Ullman and Sutherland were as great as usual . Ritter was n't bad either . What 's her name was as pretty as usual . It could have been a good movie . To bad the plot was atrocious . It was completely predictable , trite and boring . From the first 15 minutes , the rest of the movie was laid out like a child 's paint by numbers routine . The characters were stock pieces of cut out cardboard . There was nothing new or interesting to say and that completely outweighed the acting , which was a pity . Finally , too bad the script writer was n't the victim . Especially with the `` precocious '' lines from the child , which were completely unbelievable . Again , it 's only the acting that prevented a much lower score .
Snow White is in my opinion a bad movie on an artistic point of view . The plot is pretty much foreseeable , the characters are stereotypes , the editing too exaggerated . Anyway , the movie seems not to have a lot of artistic ambitions . Instead , I think this is a straight commercial thing . Including a character from the french part of Switzerland ( the actor IS the leader of the band he is touring with in the movie - the band 's called SENS UNIK ) seems to aim to a larger audience . A straight German-swiss movie would not have sold in the french part - and vice versa . What really got on my nerves were the product placements all over the movie . Sometines scenes remembered of advertisement clips ! I also think the topic of `` young people taking drugs without any other targets in their lives '' is a wide spread reality in Zurich . Therefore , it should be elaborated with more care . I hope Samir got enough money with Snow White , in order that his next movie is gon na show his true artistic skills .
`` Kids Like These '' could have been a decent film , given the subject matter . But instead it has become a below-average , run-of-the-mill TV-movie of the week , with not much going for it . The acting is stale , the plot predictable and the direction non-existent . For a better movie on the same subject , try the excellent `` Le Huitième Jour '' , a film that really cares about the people with Down-syndrome . In `` Kids Like These '' they are merely used as an excuse for weepy sentimentality . Pretty appalling . 1/10
We are not in the fairy tale of the naked emperor . We may confess the truth of what we see , without being stupid , confess , that this show is in many aspects just incomprehensible and that it is clear , that much of it was created out of pure intuition without real concept . Well , obviously many people like such stuff . I do n't . I prefer well thought and planed shows . And I also confess , that the show is much to serious for my taste and boring ... those love and drug stories ... There are so many exciting soaps with lot of suspense ( Dallas e.g . ) , but Twin Peaks ca n't catch my attention . I do n't care about those people , except Cooper and Gordon Cole .
After reading the book , I loved the story . Watching the movie I was disappointed that so many changes were made . It is understandable that books and movies differ but it was two different stories , only the names and some of the book 's story remained . Read the book and you 'll have a better understanding of the movie . The book gives you a better development of the characters . These characters are extremely interesting and make you care about them . The locations were indeed in line with the book 's descriptions . Some characters not included . Television has microwaved so many great books and stories , this is a perfect example of that . Input from the author does n't always insure a good movie but it can help sometimes .
I have to congratulate the genius who approved this one . Edward Furlong , you 're not as good as you think mate , you ca n't grab on every piece of low-cost amateur crap , which sole intention has to be to get some bucks . The filming is bad , and I mean BAD . Anyone with a camera would get the same result , or better . The acting , lets just say : do n't go to the supermarket looking for actors . The good ones usually come with a degree or , at least , have some damn experience ! The director.. Mr. Jon Keeyes , please find your purpose in life , as a director you simply suck . Your directing is poor , the angles are all messed up ( not in a good way ) , the lines seem as if they 're being read out of toilet paper , and the damn music.. it always comes up when it should n't and goes out for no apparent reason . And do n't go for writer either , by the way . Making movies is n't like serving on a coffeshop , it requires art and skill , things I really doubt you 'll ever have . Instead of making a badass shootout movie , you should 've shot this one back to oblivion and wait 'till something good came up.. Or just go find a job on a coffeshop . You 'll have less stress and you 'll save movie goers some money and a bad night . vote : 1/10 ( my first one )
Singleton has some serious issues he has to come to grips with . I get the feeling that he thinks he is pretty smart ; however , this movie is almost comically transparent and self righteous . In addition , there are a bunch of `` might-makes-right '' messages like when our local Nazi jerks get beat up . I mean , who in their right mind is going to root for a bunch of Nazi jerks ? However , he way Singleton portrays the `` fight '' is downright silly and seems to be designed to show us more the superior fighting qualities of the black protagonists than anything else . There is another `` bad guy '' ( in reality a drunken frat boy ) who rapes one of the movie 's protagonists . In this instance , I think that Singleton actually does a nice job portraying what is probably an all too common situation when the woman involved asks the frat boy to use a condom and he either does not have one or does not want to use one . In any event , he does not accede to her demands that he stop and he proceeds to have intercourse despite her pleas . I think that this type of rape is all too common and in fact many uniformed people refuse to accept the fact that it is even a rape . Well , no means no , this is a rape , which probably occurs a lot in Universities across the country . Having established the rape , how does Singleton deal with it ? When the frat boy tries to call the woman , her roommate refuses to put the victim on the phone , at which point the frat boy calls the roommate a `` black bitch . '' The aggrieved roommate appears to appeal to a counsel of Ice Cube , et al , who then proceed to physically humiliate and abuse the frat boy into repeated and prolonged `` apologies '' to roommate for his racist remarks ; however the ( apparently in Singleton 's mind ) lesser crime of rape is not mentioned . Again , no one really should feel sorry for the frat boy ; however , Singleton seems to be sending a dual message that a racist comment is a greater offense then rape and in any event violence is justified against jerks . What is so ultimately so disappointing is that this movie could have truly been about something important but Singleton , while no doubt a talented director , does not appear to have the maturity or depth to pull of something of this magnitude .
I wanted to like this film , I really did . It 's got some good actors but ultimately it falls flat . It tries too hard to be funny in some places ( the daughters over zealous cooking attempts ) , over reaches in others ( the scene where they clean up someone 's yard , so he agrees to join the team ) and has some scenes that , while mildly interesting , are really just filler ( all the work scene 's ) . And I did n't find the `` villians '' intimidating , or worth hating , so much as I found them to be childishly annoying . I 've met people like those in the film while playing church ball . And I will say the referee 's are spot on , Still , in the end , I really did n't care all that much about the characters , or their quest for church ball glory . Maybe because they were all so one dimensional , which I might not have minded so much if the film were funnier or seemed to flow a little more smoothly overall . Kurt Hale , and Halestorm entertainment , has made some good films , but this is not one of them .
Watching this last night it amazed me that Fox spent so much money on it and got so little back on their investment . It 's the kind of disaster that has to be seen to be believed . I 'm sure that the first morning of filming Raquel Welch dusted off the shelf over her fireplace to prepare a spot for the Academy Award she would surely win for this daringly original movie . Oops . That 's not what happened . The infighting on the set was detailed in print by Rex Reed and this helped the movie attain a reputation before it was even released . When it was finally released there was n't the usual three ring circus of publicity . If I remember correctly , in Houston it opened at drive-ins and neighborhood theatres and never played any of the big venues . I lay most of the blame on director Michael Sarne , who was hot after having directed ( the not all that good ) JOANNA , a film with music about young people in swinging mod London . If I recall correctly , Fox wound up firing him and piecing the film together the best they could . That 's why scenes play out in no particular sequence and characters appear and then vanish . An impressive supporting cast ( Kathleen Freeman , Jim Backus , John Carradine , Andy Devine and others ) is wasted with nothing to do . To expand it to feature length there are numerous clips from Fox movies featuring stars like Carmen Miranda ( in amazing footage from THE GANG 'S ALL HERE ) andLaurel and Hardy , who never dreamed they 'd be playing in an X rated movie . The X rating is due to occasional language numerous sexual perversions ; however , none of the characters seem to be having any fun . Maybe somebody involved with the film had a warped Puritan sensibility and figured that if they could make these things unappealing it was n't bad to exploit them . This was one of the `` youth '' pictures that nearly bankrupted Hollywood in the 1970 's . One writer joked that EASY RIDER ( which was made for pocket change ) was the most expensive movie ever made because so many films followed which tried and failed in the worst way to duplicate its success . Sixtyish , once honored directors like Stanley Kramer and Otto Preminger made movies like RPM and SKIDOO in an effort to attract a young audience . White directors and writers attempted to make films to attract a Black audience . Those movies are locked somewhere in a vault and the two named and many others from that genre have never , as best I know , been out on home video or cable . They 're the studios ' deep dark secret . Raquel Welch 's performance in this is , all things considered , very good . With the right direction and script she could played the type of sassy liberated women Rosiland Russel and Barbara Stanwyck specialized in . She looks great and has awesome costumes . Mae West is the liveliest seventy-something actress I 've ever seen . On the one hand it 's kind of heartbreaking to watch her attempt to capture her glory from years gone by , but I 'm sure she needed the money . If you want to see a big budget X-rated movie from this era check out BEYOND THE VALLEY OF THE DOLLS ( also from Fox ) because it does n't take itself seriously . It 's crazy kids playing with the equipment at a major studio . MYRA BRECKINRIDGE tries to Say Something . There just was n't anyone who wanted to listen .
Hearing such praise about this play , I decided to watch it when I stumbled across it on cable . I do n't see how this `` elivates '' women and their `` struggles '' by focusing on the topic at hand . I guess if you have an interest in stories about women 's private parts and how it affects their lives , then this is for you . Otherwise , it 's rather dull and boring . If anything , I found it a bit degrading . I inquired with a female friend who also watched this and she thought it was horrible as well . So , it 's not just a guy `` not getting it '' .
I watched Peter Jackson version of Lord of the Rings when I was half way through reading the Two Towers and I thought it was absolutely brilliant . At this time the animated version of the Lord of the Rings was released on DvD but I told myself that I will finish reading the Two Towers and Return of Kings before watching it ( as I thought it showed the whole of the trilogy ) . So when I did finish the trilogy I went and brought the DvD , which was a stupid idea because it was absolutely rubbish . I was acturly bored 20 minutes in to it which was really strange because I love the book and I am shooked that the maker of this film could of even thought of fitting at least 1 and a half of the books in to a 2 hour 8 minute film . None of the characters had any emotions when they were talking and they seemed to be reading it of a page , even my favourite character who is Gandalf did not seem interesting at all . The animation was the only okay in parts of the film except for the orks ( they looked awful ) and Aragorn and Sam face . I do n't know way this film was released because there was not even a proper ending , but maybe it was good that the maker ran out of money because the film could n't of got any better . I just hope that nobody judges the books by this film . 3/10
Jamie Foxx is fun but this movie has been done before . The bad guy plays a `` malkovichian '' character from `` In the Line of Fire '' . The cops will do anything to find the bad guy - and of course the good guy has two sets of bad guys and one set of cops after him - all the while he is just trying to turn over a new leaf ...
I found this movie to be a great idea , that did n't deliver . It seems they found a way to build suspense , but could n't stage their payoffs very well . In one case the police , are on the clock to find the hideout of the kidnappers . They painstakingly go from dentist to dentist to match a dental record . At the same time , the kidnapped man ( Mason ) escapes through the elevator shaft . After all the build up , the police arrive at the same time he gets free , which is very anti-climatic to say the least . There are also large narration scenes that take us `` inside the thinking '' of the terrorized husband and wife , which detracts from the suspense rather than adds to it . We are fully aware of their tension , and the voice-over is an insult and robs the viewer of any chance of a personal experience with the fear , as Hitchcock proved time and again , is far more effective . The greatest disappointment , is to sit through the whole movie , and the get the quick , rather bland ending . I mean it just ... '' ends '' in a snore .
I think scarecrows are creepy , so it 's a pity this movie does n't make more of them . A bunch of robbers do an emergency parachute from a plane into a enormous field with scarecrows . One of them goes missing with the loot and so the rest chase him down while being set upon by inexplicably evil scarecrows . The acting is hammy and the scarecrows unimpressive ( when they move ) . On the positive side , the director does get some suspense out of the static scarecrows . It is as Alfred Hitchcock says , `` A bomb under a table goes off , and that 's surprise . We know the bomb is under the table but not when it will go off , and that 's suspense . ''
The only reason `` The Norliss Tapes '' deserves ANY stars is the presence of Angie Dickinson in the cast . Other than getting to see Angie Baby in a pre- '' Police Woman '' performance , there 's nothing else worth seeing here . THE SYNOPSIS : *** MINOR SPOILERS *** David Norliss is tapped to write a book on the supernatural . One day he mysteriously disappears after phoning his publisher and suggesting he has stumbled across something that has placed him in mortal danger . The entire series for which this miserable pilot was written was apparently intended to be a series of flashbacks via the `` Norliss tapes '' -- a set of audio tapes the writer recorded while investigating cases of the supernatural . In the pilot episode , a wealthy sculptor dies -- but not before purchasing an ancient Egyptian scarab ring from a local occultist who assures him the bauble will give him immortality after death . We soon discover the ring itself does n't grant immortality . Instead , it only reanimates the sculptor 's corpse , allowing him to escape his crypt so he can run around town draining pretty girls of all their blood . Blue-faced , yellow-eyed and growling out ARRRGHHHHHHs you have n't heard since you last watched `` Scooby Doo '' cartoons , the sculptor attacks his wife ( Dickinson ) one dark night . She escapes and , via a mutual acquaintance , contacts Norliss to get his assistance in solving the mystery behind her late husband 's uncanny reappearance on her estate . So is this guy a vampire ? No . There 's no vampire in this story despite what you may have read or heard . The sculptor does n't drink his victims ' blood -- he collects it . How ? Do n't know . We only see him attacking , never collecting . Why ? To fulfill the second part of his bid for immortality . It turns out the reanimated sculptor will only be allowed to live forever if he builds a life-size statue of a demon named Sargoth out of a mixture of clay and human blood . Once it 's finished , Sargoth plans to inhabit the statue , using it as his gateway into our world . THE FINAL ANALYSIS : `` The Norliss Tapes '' was n't picked up as a series for a very good reason ... it was garbage . As you can see from my synopsis , the story is a paltry , ill-conceived mess . The acting and dialogue offer no better . This is n't even a contender for a `` So Bad It 's Good '' Award . Sometimes bad is just bad . After years of hearing underground rumblings about the great merits of `` The Norliss Tapes , '' I was very excited to find it airing on Fox Movie Channel on 10/15/03 . I wish I had n't set myself up for the fall . Having screened this groaner for the first time two days ago , I can only assume any applause you 've heard so far from other IMDB reviewers is coming from those who are reviewing the show based on dim memories and the nostalgia of youth . Or perhaps they are simply loyal fans of Dan Curtis . Either way , they 've offered you misleading reviews of `` The Norliss Tapes . '' Pauly Orchid -- October 17 , 2003
I totally hated the movie . It was so retarded . They need to get some acting lessons ... .no , wait , that wo n't help because the Naked Brothers Band people a retards . You know why I am here even though I am a Naked Brothers Band hater ? To warn people before they watch the dumb movie so that the NBB does n't get any money from it so then they ca n't make any more amateur stupid songs that are so retarded that any old guy could go and write it in 10 seconds . Not only are the song lyrics retarded , they sing badly . Okay , I 'm kinda getting off the movie here ... ..anyways , it was boring and they acted horribly . It was NOT funny at all even though they tried really hard for it to be . I guess they deserve some credit for that ... well , the movie is n't worth your time . Just look at its rating . The movie ( and the series ) is very painful to watch for anyone who has even half a brain . Seriously , if you liked it , you need to go watch movies where the actors actually act , not babbling their lines in a monotone . I am on the drama club at my school and some people there are actually BETTER than those Nat and Alex guys . Hurry before it 's too late ! I seriously thought that Herbie Fully Loaded was better than this piece of poopie . I do n't even know why I went through even HALF of that film . I do n't think it even deserves to be called a film ...
Greenaway seems to have a habit of trying deliberately to disgust his viewers . This film opens with incest -- and purposeless , meaningless , casual incest at that . That 's Greenaway 's big problem . He prefers parlor tricks to shock over actually doing anything meaningful . Technical skill is n't enough . He 's just a bit perverse for the sake of perversity .
Generally I like horror movies , but unfortunately this fell out of the one pound bargain bin into my friends hand . We sat down to watch it , ready to be scared and ended up spraying food everywhere we were laughing so much . The concept is n't that bad , but why they decided number ten in the series would be lucky I do n't know . The worst thing about the movie is the actors . The camera work was poor , the special effects are actually not bad if I am being generous , but overall the story failed to connect on any levels because the actors were as effective as a small lump of badly charred elm . They were wooden beyond measure , especially a foppish young actor who was fifteen years too young to be taken seriously as any kind of government agent . He looked more like a public school boy in fact . There was a really amusing sex scene where he looked like he was bobbing for apples as a busty lady rode on top of him and later his nappy sized underpants were hysterical , but then I remembered it was n't supposed to be a comedy . I 'm desperately wracking my brain to find something positive to say about this movie apart from the occasional flash of breasts , but there simply is n't . Let 's hope ten was the lucky number and they do n't do another one , I 'm not sure my ribs could take it .
Joe Don Baker is ... Thomas Jefferson Geronimo , a pudgy , sweaty murderous oaf in a stupid cowboy suit that Roy Rogers would have laughed at . Somehow he still has a badge , probably because he lives in Texas and they 'll let ANYTHING be law enforcement there . This greasy loser is a deputy sheriff near the Texas border . Not surprisingly , he was once a Texas Ranger but got kicked out because he seemed to think that the law was his own personal bouncing ball to be played with at his discretion . This includes shooting suspects who are over the international border into Mexico , beating up on suspects , cheating in gun fights , threatening women , starting gunfights that could have been avoided AND managing to get the life of a child threatened in the process , letting women he promised he would help and protect get killed just so that he could get out of jail , etc , etc . This guy makes L.A. cops look like saints in comparison . When his partner is killed by a pair of wandering Italian assassins , Joe Don 's character hunts them down and kills one of them . Then he takes the other to Italy at the behest of a Mr. Wilson , who rightly thinks that Joe Don will screw up big time . In record time , he loses the Italian and gets a Maltese cabby blown up in the process . This is just the first of the many deaths and major destruction that Joe Don leaves in a trail behind him as he rampages across Malta looking for Palermo ( the Italian assassin ) . Thus begins the mobius strip part of the movie , in which our hero gets arrested , lectured by the Maltese chief of police , goes out and causes more trouble , gets arrested , gets lectured by the chief of police ... and so on , and so on . Until you want to blow your brains out with Joe Don 's ivory handled pistol and be done with the horror . Joe Don proves his uselessness not just in the first time Palermo escapes , but in the subsequent boat chase in which he goes down in just one punch . Then he gets taken by Palermo after he threatens a woman with a coat hanger . You hope that Palermo will actually get to torture him in the basement cell he 's put in , but no-the stripper he threatened came and got him out , because he promised to protect her . Her throat promptly gets cut ( big surprise ) and Joe Don escapes into the night . And here you hope he might have been drowned in the ( yet another ) boat chase . But even the ocean does n't want him , and spits him up on a shore where he 's nursed by a poor Maltese family ( what did they ever do to deserve that ? ) he returns to the city , where he 's arrested by the police , lectured by the police chief ... arrrgghhh ! The female police officer who 's been escorting him around frees him so that they can go get Palermo . Why she would do anything so brain dead as to destroy her career for this great slob is beyond me . It 's just head scratchily puzzling . They go out to the villa where Palermo is hiding , and start a shoot out . Joe Don blithely cheats , and kills Palermo . He then utters the great and dazzling last line of the movie : `` The big one has my badge . Can you go get it for me ? '' Thank you for that immortal line , Mr. Baker . That will go down in the annals of movie history as the most literate , amazing , wondrous last line ever uttered by a character in a film . It certainly falls into line with everything else about the character . Bravo .
Jonathan Rivers ( Michael Keaton ) suddenly becomes a widower when his wife dies . Soon after , he 's approached by a Dr. Price , an expert in Electronic Voice Phenomena ( EVP ) , who claims he 's been receiving messages from Jonathan 's departed wife Anna via sundry electronic gadgets . Is Anna trying to tell Jonathan something ? Is this merely a hint of something on a larger cosmic or otherworldly scale ? It 's good to see Keaton in a leading role , but the story he 's stuck with is convoluted and absurd at points ; it 's as if the movie does n't know how to answer any of the questions it brings up , so it just distracts the viewer with new , unrelated questions . Keaton himself is pretty good , convincingly cast as the bereaving widower desperately trying to communicate with his late wife . He 's matured quite a bit as an actor , leaving behind the frat-friendly waacky-hijinks roles he played 15 or so years earlier . He looks a little craggy , with a perhaps few more wrinkles than one might expect , but he 's lost none of the guile and panache that he 's shown during his quarter century in Hollywood . So it 's not that Keaton turns in a mediocre performance , it 's that the script itself is subpar . Written by Niall Johnson , the plot gets more confusing as it progresses , each tortuous path ending in another tortuous path . This is all well and good if the path leads to some sort of acceptable denouement , something that ties more or less everything together and explains ... something . But not White Noise ; I knew less about what had happened to Jonathan than I did before I 'd first seen him . Keaton 's really the only reason to watch this junk , although he gets fine support from Ian McNeice ( as Dr. Price ) and Deborah Kara Unger as the requisite love interest .
ALIEN LOVE ( As this movie is known in Britain ) is a very strange movie . I don ` t mean that it ` s an esoteric art house movie in the style of Peter Greenaway or Derek Jarman , I mean it ` s a TVM with swearing , sex , some really good T & A , a bad script and a very retro feel . You can just imagine someone like John Hughes directing this ten years earlier , though of course he would have cut out the T & A Going back to the bad script , one of the problems is that few of the characters have any type of motivation especially Amanda . Why does she pick up Connie at the bar ? Just so she could meet an alien ? Do you see what I mean about retro ? ET , SHORT CIRCUIT and a whole lot of other movies from the mid 1980s had this type of plot with most of them being more defined and convincing than the one seen here . The storyline continues to follow an ill defined , unconvincing and illogical path That said I did find ALIEN LOVE watchable and not only down to the T & A on display . As a a sci-fi sex comedy it ` s much better than FLESH GORDON and EARTH GIRLS ARE EASY
This is probably one of the worst films i have ever seen . The events in it are completely random and make little or no sense . The fact that there is a sequel is so sickening i may come down with a case of cabin fever ( I 'M SO SORRY ) . I describe it as bug being smooshed to a newspaper because it seems to be different parts of things mixed together . e.g Kevin the pancake loving karate kid is just freakishly weird on its own , then there 's the cop who is slightly weird and perverted , then the drug addict , then there 's the fact that they attack some random guy who clearly needs help . then all of a sudden the main character is having sex with his friends girlfriend just because she says something stupid about a plane going down . then at the end some good old family racism followed by a rabbit operating on Kevin the karate kid . Its actually pretty despicable that they can use racism as a joke in this film . There is no reason for anyone to enjoy this film unless you love Eli Roth , even that did not make me like this film . Hate is a strong word but seeing as it is the only word i am permitted to use it will have to do . BOYCOTT CABIN FEVER 2 ! ! ! ! !
One of Scorsese 's worst . An average thriller ; the only thing to recommend it is De Niro playing the psycho . The finale is typically of this genre i.e . over-the-top , with yet another almost invincible , immune-to-pain villain . I did n't like the 60s original , and this version was n't much of an improvement on it . I have no idea why Scorsese wasted his time on a remake . Then again , considering how bad his recent movies have been ( I 'm referring to his dull Buddhist movie and all the ones with his new favourite actress , the blond girl Di Caprio ) this is n't even that bad by comparison . And considering Spielberg wanted to do the remake ... could have been far worse .
Well , this movie started out funny but quickly deteriorated . I thought it would be more 'adult oriented ' humor based on the first few moments but then the movie switched into a bad made-for-Disney Channel type mode , especially a go-kart racing scene that was incredibly long . Alana De La Garza is gorgeous but has a really fake Italian accent . The movie looked and sounded very independent and low budget . There was one very cute moment which I 'll just call the serenading scene but overall this one was a yawner . The laughs are very few and far between . The end surprise for `` Mr . Fix It '' is so ridiculous it left me more mad than anything else . Might be worth a look if you can catch it for free or TV but do n't waste your money buying or renting this movie .
It feels like swedish movies are trying to become more american and I just don´t get it . In this movie the performance of some of the actors is horrible and the script is nothing special . Don´t waste your time !
The name ( Frau ) of the main character is the German word for `` Woman '' . I do n't know if that was intentional or not , but if sure got some giggles from the German audience at the Fantasy Film Festival last year , when it was shown . But those were the only giggles the movie got . Not that it was aiming for giggles , it 's a horrible movie for heaven 's sake ! A horrible movie in more than one meaning . It 's a shame that a premise like that was wasted with horrible even unbearable moments for the viewer ( definetely not for the faint of Heart ! ! ) ! And it was n't even necessary to show all the things that are shown . I 'm not even going into a moral obligation ( because movies do n't really have that kind of task or function ) discussion of what is shown here , but this is a new low on the whole `` torture movement '' that has grown in the last few years !
When I rented `` Unhinged '' , I was expecting a gore movie . The box even claimed that the movie had extreme scenes of violence that were cut from the theatrical release ( I now have serious doubts about this being released in the theater ) . After finishing the movie , I wondered how it could even receive a video release . The plot is as follows : A group of three young women on a car trip crash their car into a tree . These women somehow manage to make their way to a mansion , which contains an extremely sexist woman . Beyond this point , the movie is mainly composed of useless scenes that are intended to make the movie long enough for release . One of the things that makes this movie awful is the acting . Lisa Munson , who plays the main character , looks as though she is reading her lines off cue cards . The others acting is bad , but not nearly as bad as hers . Another thing that makes this movie bad is the camera technique . Many shots are taken by cameras attached to the ceiling . This gets very annoying as the movie progresses . On top of all that , there is very little gore , which makes the box very misleading . Do n't waste your time on this one . My rating : 1 out of 10
I do n't understand how `` 2 of us '' receive such a high rating ... I thought that the first half dragged on and the second half didnt make sense , followed by an unresolved climax which was not worth the trouble . However , I did like Jared Harris ' performance of John Lennon which was worth the wasted 2 hours .
I feel like I 've just watched a snuff film ... .a beautifully acted , taut , engrossing and horrible thing ! A two hour litany of perversion in the most basic and all inclusive sense of the word , sexual violence and torture , rape , decapitation , incest , corruption , live burial , and abuse , abuse , abuse . No redemption whatsoever . And I WAS entertained . I could n't stop watching . What does this say about me , about the people who make and act in this sort of thing , and a world that has become so desensitized that eventually real snuff films will be the norm . And I 'm neither puritanical nor humorless , I do n't try to hide from the existence of darkness , and I definitely have not led a sheltered life , but I am ashamed of myself . AND I 'm sorry to see my British cousins dragging the subject-matter sewers the way my own tribe does . It does n't have to be cozy , but does it have to wallow in vicarious sadism ?
This woman never stops talking throughout the movie . She memorized every line , and delivered all without a bit of natural emotion . She also has a most uncharming lisp , and the pitch of her voice sounds like nails on a blackboard . This film has WAY too much Betsy Drake , and not enough Cary Grant , who carried what little was left of the film entirely on his own .
I consider Stuart Bliss the worst movie I have ever seen . The acting was terrible and the plot ludicrous . I get the fact that the main character 's wife leaving him triggered a mental breakdown , but it got so silly and boring , after a while I could have cared less about any of the characters . The movie kept going over and over the same ideas without anything fresh or surprising to add to the plot . The whole thing with the Geiger counter got too much after a while after Stuart started opening up his wall to see what was behind it after the counter indicated something was there . Then there was the repetitive scenes with the flyer , and the confusing ones where he meets himself . I should have guessed that this movie was a flop when I did n't recognize any of the actors . Do yourself a favor when this movie comes up , read a book ! You 'll be better off .
This movie is about a cop ( Ching Wan Lau ) trying to catch a super-clever thief ( Ekin Cheng ) who blackmails an insurance company headed by a Kelly Lin . Basically , whatever plans the cop tries the thief somehow knows them beforehand . This movie , covered by handsome lead actors , beautiful lead actress and good camera shots of Hong Kong scenes , really has no substance at all . It 's all flash , and the flash quickly becomes dull too . I lost all interests a third of the way into the movie , and there is no redeeming quality after that , except for the cinematography , which looks good . Only consider seeing this movie if you can do so for free . Also , consider stopping watching the movie 20 minutes into the movie because it 's all the same to the end : BORING . 6/10
In one word ... abysmal . I give it one star for the hippie sex scenes and eye candy women , otherwise forget it . Corman 's worst effort , bar none . Ben Vereen should have had his name permanently stricken from the cast . I can not believe that this is now going to be on DVD ( as of 2/15/05 ) with `` Wild In The Streets '' - another retro stinker . I woke up sick in bed this morning with a cold , decided to watch a movie to cheer me up some , scanned the digital channels ... the premise looked interesting enough because I like viewing B-movie sci-fi , hippie culture and rebellious teen flicks . It seemed familiar somehow and with Ben Vereen in the cast , I thought ... why not ? What a big mistake ... it was a horrible start to my day . Only after viewing it , I now know why the familiarity crept into the recesses of my newly-awakened brain . I remembered seeing coming attractions for this film as a 14-year old ( I 'm 45 ) , back in the early/mid-seventies at the Sombrero , a local art theater that no longer exists ... the whole theater laughed hysterically and even groaned out loud at how bad this movie looked . Acting : dreadful , story : awful , cinematography : nearly-awful , music : terrible , sound : horrendous , directing : a joke . If you choose to watch this after my warning , remember ... `` I told you so . '' `` Gass-s-s-s '' is the perfect title for this film ... you feel `` gassed '' after viewing this putrid movie - or maybe that you should be taken to a `` gas '' chamber for wasting your brain away . I have seen homemade Super 8 movies that put this film to shame . Definitely a new addition to my all-time Top Ten WORST films ... it 's up there ( er , down there ) with `` Tentacles . '' Ted in Gilbert , AZ
I am not an artistically inclined individual . I am a science minded woman and I felt that this movie was maybe one of those campy artsy type films on a budget . I watched part of it with my fiancé and my future step daughter . We tried very hard to find something in this film to keep our interest . My fiancé and his daughter voted it off and we moved on to Ocean 's 13 , but that is another story . Not to be deterred I awoke the next morning and gave the movie another shot . I began again watching this movie in earnest . I just do n't get it , I thought I would get it.I thought the funniest part was the flushing of the ashes and the urn finding a spot by the fireplace being used as a vase for what appeared to be dead flowers . Interesting and still it had dead stuff inside . It was an odd and bizarre movie . Maybe this is what they were after , however I wo n't be tricked a second time !
The Underground Comedy movie is perhaps one of the worst comedies I 've ever seen . I should have known it was going to be bad when the box had the phrase `` guaranteed to offend '' written on it ... meaning that the filmmakers were going to focus more on grossing you out than making you laugh . This movie is an amateurish jumble of childish skits , bad characters , and worse jokes ... from the pathetic Bat-Man sketch to the painfully unfunny Arnold Shvollenpecker skit , they just are n't funny . The few skits that are a little funny are few and far between - watching Micheal Clark Duncan play a gay virgin , for example - but even they go on too long and get ruined from Vince Offer 's ineptness at comedy . Keep The Underground Comedy Movie underground ... bury it !
How , in the name of all that 's holy , did this film ever get distribution ? It looks as if it has been shot on someone 's mobile phone and takes the screaming girl victim scenario to whole new depths . They literally scream for the full 90 minutes of the movie . And that 's all they do . There is no plot , no tension , no characters , and not a lot of acting . Just screaming and more screaming . I gave up after fifteen minutes and fast-wound through it to see if anything happened . It does n't - except for screaming , of course . Odlly enough , the act of going through it on fast forward highlights another problem - there is no camera-work to speak of . Every shot looks like every other shot - middle distance , one angle , dull , dull , DULL . It 's not so bad it 's good . It 's just plain bad .
The original Trancers is not by any means a great movie . It had massive plot holes and very little in the way of internal logic . However , it was entertaining , better done than most low-budget B-movies , and could be surprisingly witty . Unfortunately , Trancers II is none of these . Trancers II suffers from many of the same problems of most flop sequels . The plot is thin enough to see through and the writing is insipid . It seems that the people behind this movie felt that bringing the familiar faces of the first movie back would be enough , and did n't bother with anything else . Not even veteran B-grade actors like Tim Thomerson and Jeffery Combs were able to drag this film out of the muck . A brief plot overview : Jack Deth ( Thomerson ) is a cop from the future who was sent to 1985 to save the ancestors of members of his government . Trancers II takes place six years after the events of the first Trancers . Jack Deth is married to Lena ( Helen Hunt ) , the woman he met in the first movie , and both live with Hap Ashby , the man Deth was sent into the past to protect . It is discovered that the brother of Whistler ( the bad guy from the first movie ) has traveled back in time to create an army of Trancers , people turned into mindless killing zombies , to kill Ashby . Complicating Jack 's mission is the fact that his first wife , who had died long before Jack traveled to the past , was also sent back to stop Whistler 's brother , and now Jack finds himself working with her . I have two real problems with this movie . One is that the method of creating Trancers in this movie is radically different from the methods used in the first movie . What makes it annoying is that , in a rather poor example of Soviet Revisionism , they act like it was always the technique . The other thing that annoys me is that the love triangle between Deth , Lena , and Alice Stilwell ( Jack 's first wife ) is given very little screen time . This bothered me particularly because it was much more interesting than the actual plot of the movie . It felt like it was just something that was thrown in to fill space in the movie . Alice 's character in particular seems very unconcerned with the fact that she is reunited with her husband only to find he 's re-married , making her either very shallow or very poorly written . The only reason I can think of for watching this movie is if you 're interested in watching the entire Trancers series ( currently totaling six movies ) . Otherwise , even if you 're a fan of the original Trancers , stay away from this tepid sequel .
As I sat subjected to this televised mediocrity , I wondered why ? Why did Dianne Keaton agree to this trash ? The movie uses meaningless , contrived plot lines to deliver trash to homes of thousands . The movie takes a political agenda to a new level . The movie was meaningless , and all creditability was lost to the excessive use of stereotype . It was obvious that Keaton tried to make this movie worthwhile , but in the end she needs to remember the age old adage that you can not polish a turd . I hope that you did not waste your New Year 's Day watching another mindless made for TV movie . I now know why the networks started airing series on Sunday night , to rid us of trash !
This movie was absolutely terrible . I ca n't believe I paid to see it in the theatre . I would n't watch it on free cable t.v . I 'm surprised that Joe Magtena even made it . Do not waste your time with this movie .
Alas , poor Hamlet . I knew him , dear reader , and let me tell thee , THIS VERSION SUCKS ! I do n't know who of all people put up the money for this flotsam , but I hope that they 're proud of themselves . They took THE classic play and turned it into the most boring melodrama imaginable . This version is quite literally so bad , that not even the presence of a great thespian like Maximilian Schell in the title role can save it . This movie 's only redeeming quality is that it made great fodder for `` MST3K '' ; Mike , Servo and Crow had a lot of fun with this one . But either way , I 'm sure that Shakespeare , had he been alive when they made this , would not have wanted his name associated with it . This `` Hamlet '' is not even so bad that 's it good ; it 's just plain bad . Absolutely dreadful .
It is not often I watch a film that is as dreadful as this one . I continued to watch , every minute hoping that this was intended as a joke only to find it was meant to be taken seriously . Well , as seriously as this genre requests . The acting was disgraceful and the situations horribly contrived and clichéd . If a film was made in 1920 ( for example ) and had the quality of Hide & Seek ( Cord ) in its direction we would think that cinema back then was naive . As it happens , this film was made in 2000 and I have yet to see a film from the silent era that has as little charm as this one . Definitely not for the serious movie-goer . [ Not worth a rating ]
In short : Spike Lee clearly has a lot on his mind . He 's thinking about racism color-ism , media and hegemony , consumerism and capitalism , religion , sexism , 'hetero-sexism ' , politics of the drug war etc etc ... That level of consciousness on is own is great . I think it is a blessing that more and more people are choosing to critically examine fundamental aspects of our daily lives ; the silent and invisible forces that govern our societies . However , just because Lee is making contentious films does not make him a good film-maker . What comes across in `` Jungle Fever '' is a superficial understanding of these socio-political forces . This is largely the result of two main failures : firstly , Lee is simply trying too hard . He seems to be desperately trying to accommodate every political/social statement he can think of into the 90mins . And as such , the end result seems confused and irresolute as he allows himself no time to develop characters that can fully embody the ideas he hopes to present . And so he exhausts stereotypes and we are left with rushed testimonies and very loaded dialogs . The end result is very staged and unrealistic . Secondly , by attempting to make statements about such a wide variety of societal functions , he appears to have no concrete or original interpretation of the social/political issues presented . What comes across is a puddle of regurgitated non-sense . You feel that he bought an elementary level sociology text book and spewed out all 500 pages . These are highly problematic features because the artistry of film is sacrificed and the work is transformed into a loudspeaker for the voice of the voice of the filmmaker . He is unable to distance himself from the work , and allow it to speak for itself . It functions neither as a piece of art nor a sound political argument . Although I still do appreciate Lee bringing up these important issues , I must say : Two thumbs down .
Well , first off , if you 're checking out Revolt of the Zombies as some very early Night of the Living Dead ( 1968 ) -type film , forget it . This is about `` zombies '' in a more psychological sense , where that term merely denotes someone who is not in control of their will , but who must instead follow the will of another . The `` zombies '' here , as little as they are in the film , are largely metaphors for subservience to the state or authority in general , as in wartime . It is quite a stretch to call this a horror film . The film is set during World War I . A `` French Cambodian '' contingent had heard strange stories about zombification -- supposedly Angkor Wat was built by utilizing zombies -- and there are tales of zombie armies easily overcoming foes . Armand Louque ( Dean Jagger ) brings back a priest who supposedly knows the secret of zombification , but he wo n't talk . So Louque and an international military contingent head to Angkor Wat on an archaeological expedition designed to discover the secret of zombification and destroy the information before zombies have a chance to `` wipe out the white race '' . One of the odd things about Revolt of the Zombies is that it seems like maybe writer/director Victor Halperin decided to change his game plan while shooting the script . The film begins as if it will explore the zombie/military metaphor , and maybe even have adventure elements , but after about 15 minutes , it changes gears and becomes more of a love triangle story . Halperin does stick with a subtext about will and power ( and a Nietzschean `` will to power '' ) . The film is interesting on that level , but the script and the editing are very choppy . This is yet another older film for which I would n't be surprised if there is missing footage , especially since some scenes even fade or cut while a character is uttering dialogue . Amidst the contrived romance story , Halperin tries to keep referring to the zombie thread , but little of the zombie material makes much sense . Louque discovers the secret of zombification , but it does n't mean much to the viewer . The mechanics of the zombie material are vague and confusing—Halperin even resorts to using superimposed footage of Bela Lugosi 's googly-eyes from his 1932 film , White Zombie , but never explains what it has to do with anything . There are big gaps in the plot , including the love story . Promising , interesting characters from early reels disappear for long periods of time . One potential villain is disposed of unceremoniously before he gets to do much . If you 're a big fan of old , creaky B movies , Revolt of the Zombies may be worth watching at least once -- the acting is n't all that bad , and if you 've got a good imagination , you can piece together an interesting story in your mind to fill in all of the gaps . But this is the second time I 've seen the film , with the first only being about five years ago , and I could barely recall anything about it -- so it 's not exactly memorable .
This movie was packed pull of endless surprises ! Just when you thought it could n't get worse , they added more joints and more pink fuzzy-lined vans with raunchy sex scenes . As you can guess , I was a victim of the original version . We were tricked into watching it thinking it was Supervan , the host box which promised lasars , jail breaks , and much more . Who would have thought a Dollar Store Christmas present could have been so much fun !
This film reminds me a lot of the anti-drug films of the 50 's and 60 's due to the fact that it was made by people that have obviously never experienced the social evil that they are warning us about . Tom Hanks and his buddies are `` role playing '' , but there are no dice , lots of candles , and then you are just swept away in a bad montage showing Hanks falling for the lady in the group . quite funny but misguided . I wonder how many poor kids had their D & D stuff destroyed , and were told that the use of their imagination was the road to destruction . As a film it 's basically an after school special , bad acting ( although Hanks does show some of his talent ) and relationship talks , and no one seems to be having any fun . It seems these films have a psychological focus on adolescents starting on the road to adultism , which is more serious , apparently , and requires you to buckle down and do the things everyone else does . Despite my vote of 2 , this is worth watching due to its unique genre , scare films , which I personally find quite funny .
I watched this film on the Hallmark Channel recently . In my opinion , the film started out decent enough , but eventually got sour . The Story : A U.S. soldier in Afghanistan receives one of the Christmas cards that a woman back in the U.S. has sent out to troops for Christmas . He becomes so inspired by the Christmas card that he feels it has given him a ray of hope and happiness in his life , a motivation to continue on . When he is given leave , he goes to the very town that the woman lives in . He comes across and spunky young woman and eventually finds out that she is the one that sent the Christmas card . He meets the family and after saving her dad ( a Vietnam War Veteran ) from getting hit by a car whilst crossing the street , the family decides to take him in for a while . We learn that he does n't have a family back home . The soldier agrees to help out the family during the Christmas season by working with them at their logging company . The family comes to love him and vice-versa . The soldier also becomes in love with the family 's daughter - the woman that sent the Christmas card . There 's only one problem . She already has a serious relationship with a man that she 's in love with . It 's also a long distance relationship . The boyfriend is very different from the soldier . He prefers wine and trips to France over hard labor and the great outdoors . The woman prefers the latter . Throughout the rest of the film , there is a `` love triangle '' as the woman 's boyfriend is back in town visiting her for the season . Everyone in the family seems to want the daughter to be with the soldier and the mom basically wants what 's best for her daughter . ** ( SPOILER ALERT ) ** The woman comes to like the soldier more and more , as they have a lot in common . They happen to spend a lot of time together . She gradually becomes attracted to his persona . Then one day he kisses her and and she kisses him back . Now she 's so confused ! She 's in love with her boyfriend and wants to marry him someday , but she 's become so fond of the soldier . Soon enough , the boyfriend ( who does n't know about the kiss , but is very protective of the woman and thinks the soldier has been trying to move in on her ) decides to propose to the woman and she accepts . His plans for their marriage , however , are not plans that she wants . She wants to be at home , have kids and be close to her family . He wants to travel the world , go to exotic places and if they have kids he wants to take them along . This does n't sound too thrilling for the woman . However , the soldier feels bad about what he 's done and does n't want to make things worse . So , he decides to leave town , despite the dad 's urging him to stay and be with his daughter . It all comes to a head when , at the Christmas Eve service with Church , we find out that the soldier has n't left yet . The boyfriend and the woman speak to each other outside and he , broken-hearted , basically decides to let her go and breaks up with her . The film ends with the woman and the soldier getting together . Things I like : I like the soldier throughout much of the film . He 's basically nice and polite , with a strong sense of doing good for others ; there are moments in which the family is going with Church and participating in charitable causes ; the family hold hands and pray during an evening meal at the table ; the dad and mom have a long-lasting and evidently healthy marriage ; the soldier tries to do the right thing in a situation after he did something very wrong Things I do n't like : There is a very typical `` love triangle '' story in this film ; the soldier turns sour as he slowly and subtly moves in on the woman and then eventually kisses her when she already has a boyfriend ; most of the family practically applauds this behavior - the family goes with Church and participates in services , yet this is how they act ; there is some bad language Conclusion : I became disappointed as the film ran on , and it got worse and worse . I ended up fast forwarding the very end of the film because I had enough . So , the film started out decent with some few gem moments , but ended up ruining itself . Therefore , I do n't recommend this film to anyone .
All the world said that the film Tashan would be a good movie with great pleasure , but this is not the case . Vijay Krishna Acharya made a serious mistake to take as an actress Kareena Kapoor . She was unbearable throughout the film . Her tom-boy look does not really goes well . Even the film the story of the film is not making sense at all . Everyone said that the Quetin Taratino of India is Vijay but its not at all Quetin . The talent Anil Kapoor was involved in this stupid movie . Anil is an actor of large caliber and this film is not . Akshay Kumar has also been a victim of this film as all is Saif . The Style and the Phoormola is not really good in this film i was disappointed
I watched this film based on the very favorable reviews that I read about it here by others . They definitely saw something in this movie I did n't see , that 's for sure . The movie starts off at a good pace , and the first 15 or 20 minutes of it are interesting , then it begins to get logged down and draggy , not to mention completely unbelievable . Eventually you find yourself saying : `` What ? ! ? He 's going to do that too ? Just how far is he going to go with this thing ? '' The plot begins with Jeff Goldblum 's character , John , going into a deli to purchase a bottle of wine . There is a robbery and a new store clerk , Auggie Rose , gets killed during the robbery . John gets in the ambulance and goes to the hospital with the guy . This seems a little much , but wait , there 's more . John becomes totally obsessed with Auggie Rose . For reasons that never make any kind of logical sense , John , who has a very good life , a beautiful , loving girlfriend , a secure , well-paying job , nice house , nice car , expensive suits -- decides he wants to be a loser like Auggie Rose was , and experience life in a low paying job , living in a dump with a dippy girlfriend and possible connections with dangerous people . Why this dim-witted , half-baked film got favorable reviews I 'll never know . Sure Goldblum does a good acting job - he always does - and his looks have improved with age -- but unless you have a BIG infatuation with Jeff Goldblum and have to see every film he 's in , I would n't recommend this turkey . It 's approximately two hours of your life you 're not going to get back - and believe me - you 'll have nothing to be thankful about when those two hours are over , other than being grateful you 're not still sitting there watching this film !
Yes , this movie is bad . What 's worse is that it takes no advantage whatsoever of its own title ! ! In the ENTIRE movie , zombies and vampires fight each other ONCE OR TWICE . On top of that , we 're never really sure if the main character in the movie is DEFINITELY a vampire . One might argue they were trying to `` tone it down '' or make it `` realistic , '' but it ends up just boring . More than half of this movie takes place IN A CAR . The scenes that take place anywhere else are n't much to brag about , either . Also , there 's no clear antagonist , and in the end you have no idea what really happened for the last 30 minutes of the movie . However , I will say that for a film this low in production value , the soundtrack was surprisingly appropriate and instrumented ( with either an origonal score or sampled music from elsewhere ) . I 'm all for independent films , but it does n't look like this was ever intended for a mass audience ( if any ) . `` worse than Scarecrow slayer . ''
I must say this movie is a Mork and Mindy knock off , when watching it i got the chills , I even wet myself a little . When that Korean guy with the spiders in his neck started kicking people i was like oh my lord Asian people smell and suck cause they eat dogs all the time . Any way back on track Chuck had a somewhat terrible performance and lacked the intelligence of a regular non robotic human being . Some people would compare it to his earlier days when he was a car wash analyzer and believed in the holy ghost and the ghost of Christmas past . This movie is so bad I put my new born child in a box and left it in Mr. Norris mailbox . He can raise my kid I 'm not letting him into a world where he thinks chuck Norris is a karate expert Ill let him see what that hack is like in real life for the rest of his life .
this , is NOT one of those films it is one of the biggest pieces of tripe I have ever scene , the camera work is trying to be flashy but it really just crap the whole thing looks like the red shoe diaries , but without the sex , the only reason I bought this was I wanted to try out dvd and this was the cheapest one I could find , possibly the worst buy of my life and could have put you off dvd forever , the soundtrack is REALLY tacky and most of the movie is made up of endless repeats of clips from the first two films , why anyone would want to make a movie as awful as this is beyond me , if they had really attempted to make an original movie and failed I would be nicer in this review but they do n't they just got the rights to reproduce stuff from the first two and then edit it and repeat it into this film with about maybe under 1 3rd original footage which is about up to the standards of film school students , DO NOT buy this movie . the only entertainment this dvd can offer is if you were to stick it in the microwave and watch the flashing lights ! UTTER UTTER UTTER UTTTER unbelievable GARBAGE ! 0/10 if only the voting system would allow that .
Scary Movie 3 ( 2003 ) was a bad idea to begin with . The last film was a mediocre effort . Put it next to this load , it 's a comedy classic . Whilst part two was filled with a lot of dated humor and cheap shots , at least it was funny . There 's nothing funny about forced humor . Jokes , pratfalls and sight gags are supposed to be naturally funny . Hitting the viewer over the head with tired jokes is not cool . The humor in this film was caters to juvenile imbeciles who 'll laugh at anything . When they catered to the junior high school crowd , any sense of self respect was tossed out the window . Ring parodies are not funny . I have watched them in comedies since 1998 . They 're so dated . Michael Jackson jokes are not cool either . What 's even worse is making fun of two broken down has been `` performers '' whose best days were NEVER . The death of American cinema has been a slow one . Films like this are the nails that are being pounded into it 's coffin . Whatever happened to real humor ? I have n't laughed out loud in a movie theater in a long time . Too many bad movies rot the brain . You want proof ? Go to your local mega chain video rental store and see what 's on the shelves . This movie is bad . Do n't believe the hype . I would rather watch Scary Movie 2 in a continuous loop than to suffer through this poor excuse of a comedy ever again ! Definitely not recommended ( unless you have a handful of brain cells ) .
Seeing this movie , as I just did for the first time on Turner Classic ( which lists it as `` Dangerous Female '' ) , can only multiply your appreciation for the 1941 Bogart-Astor version . Ricardo Cortez must have been getting paid by the smirk . I hope he remembered his dentist and his Brylcreem salesman in his will ; they made him the actor he was . The women are all good , but no better than that . Well , Una Merkel is a little better . More interesting are the `` original '' Joel Cairo and Mr. Gutman , who competently deliver many of the individual tics but almost nothing of the set-changing atmospherics of their successors in the roles , Peter Lorre and Sydney Greenstreet . Humphrey Bogart and Mary Astor somehow transcended the essential seediness of their characters in the remake ; here , Sam Spade and Ruth Wonderley ( ! ) ca n't . This movie does n't exactly stink ; it lies there like a big slice of ham . Its chief value today is as a reminder that great movies like the '41 `` Falcon '' do n't just happen . On the 1-to-10 scale I rate it a 4 , mainly for the camera work and the supporting players .
Divorced lawyer Rick Magruder ( Branagh ) stumbles drunk out of a party hosted by his firm one night and has a chance meeting with a woman named Mallory Doss ( Davidtz ) , who was a waitress at the party and seems to have lost her car . Rick drives the woman to her home and there they discover that her car has been already parked there , seemingly by her father , Dixon Doss ( Duvall ) . Rick and Mallory walk into the house arguing about the situation when Mallory carelessly undresses in front of Rick , and he then spends the night with her . Rick wakes up in the morning and Mallory encounters him later in the day , asking him to file suit against her father because of his dangerous behavior . Rick , now obsessed with Mallory and willing to do anything for her , is successful in having Dixon put on trial and sent to prison , but when he is freed by his local friends , Rick finds himself in a trouble , trying to protect himself and his children from the danger he has unknowingly brought to life .
There are lots of extremely good-looking people in this movie . That 's probably the best thing about it . Perhaps that even makes it worth watching . `` Loaded '' tells the story of Tristan Price ( Jesse Metcalfe ) , a young man who 's about to make his mark on the world . He 's the son of a well-to-do family with a good reputation , and he 's on his way to law school . But like so many such settings , things are n't quite as perfect as they appear . The expectations in this family far outweigh the love . Except for school , Tristan 's father rarely lets him leave the house . This seems to be the result of some past traumatic event that shook the family , which is partially revealed through flashbacks but is n't spelled out until the very end . Tristan 's claustrophobic environment causes him to let loose in very extreme ways at the first possible opportunity , when his friends take him out to a strip club to celebrate his graduation . The celebration soon follows some strippers back to a beach house party , and from there , Tristan befriends Sebastian Cole ( Corey Large ) , who pulls him into a drug dealing underworld . While technically well-made , this movie suffers from a lackluster script and a storyline that is n't very engaging . Also counting against this film are some constant camera tricks that generally seemed annoying and out-of-place , such as slow-motion , fast-motion , freeze-frames and echos . These are the types of effects a director might normally utilize to show a character 's perspective while on drugs , except in this case they seem to have been sporadically tossed in at random points , in some cheap attempt at style . Despite its cast of relative unknowns , performances were good all around , most notably with respect to the main antagonist ( Corey Large ) . I suspect we 'll be seeing at least a couple of these people in bigger and better projects in the future . Of course , when mentioning the actors , I must mention their looks . Rating based on hotness , this movies scores an 11 . The women in this movie are incredible-looking and almost distract you from what a boring movie you 're watching . I 'm sure the male characters are also quite attractive , but you 'll have to ask someone else to comment on that . Overall , I ca n't recommend this movie , not for buying , renting , or even seeing for free . It 's unfortunately just not worth the effort it takes to sit through .
Years after the fall of the last of the great corporations , the world has fallen into a new dark age where cyborgs are harvested for their parts . Cash , a female cyborg , travels to a wasteland doctor to receive news that she is pregnant . On the run from Recyclers ( bounty hunters who hunt cyborgs ) , Cash tries to find her way to Cytown , the mythical refuge for cyborgs . `` Cyborg 3 : The Recycler '' is the third ( & last so far ) entry in the CYBORG trilogy . The first film was originally planned to be a sequel to MASTERS OF THE UNIVERSE , but was quickly rewritten into a standard post-apocalyptic martial-arts fest that became something of a cult classic due to its cheesy action scenes . CYBORG 2 : GLASS SHADOW was a sequel that actually improved upon its predecessor but was not widely seen ( & was dismissed by those few who saw it as cheap fodder ) . This film , for one thing , tries to be a meld of the first two films ( the first was a cheesy action film while the second was a smart Cyberpunk story ) but unfortunately falls short on both counts . The budget was obviously lower than CYBORG 2 , with the film being set in the desert wastelands ( like so many post-apocalyptic action films of the 90s were ) , shot around old industrial buildings to conserve costs . The film 's story centres on a plot device , that of a pregnant cyborg , that is as interesting as it is absurd ( this film is not the first to try that idea ; the anime OVA series ARMITAGE III uses it to a greater extent ) . But the film falls into the same trap that so many low-budget sci-fi action films fall victim to , in the fact that the snags ( synthetic organisms ) featured are nothing more than androids . The visual effects amount to nothing more than prosthetic arms & makeup effects . The acting is pretty standard for this kind of film , with the lead actress ( Khrystyne Haje ) being the single worst performer on display . Instead of being joyed at the news she is pregnant , she acts all whiny & sullen . Her co-stars are much better , Malcolm McDowell being the usual gangster type who enlivens the scenes he appears in & Richard Lynch has a lot of fun as the chief villain . Of particular note is Andrew Byniarski , playing Lynch 's right hand man , who would later appear in THE Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE remake & its prequel .
I was searching through Hollywood video last night with a friend trying to find a good-looking horror movie to watch over the New Year 's weekend . As I was looking through the shelves , `` Severed '' spotted my eye , and I grabbed it off the shelf and it looked like it might be a decent B-grade horror movie . The cover looked fairly good . The plot sounded semi-interesting . So I rented it . What a mistake . Do n't be fooled by the cover , which actually looks decent . I 'm thinking that more money was spent on the cover artwork than the movie itself . The film follows two police detectives who are tracking down a voodoo-inspired , ritualistic serial killer called `` The Head Hunter '' , who is decapitating victims left and right in some unnamed city ( probably Los Angeles ) , and they become drawn into his world of ritualized murder . Story sound somewhat good ? Well , it is , and this movie could 've been halfway decent . But good God , it was bad ! Almost everything about it was laughable . The opening scene features some redheaded actress in a car trying to talk on this huge , outdated cell phone , and for whatever reason , she goes outside and talks to some guy . Then , a shadow comes up behind them , hacks off his head , and the girl drops to the ground and starts crawling ( for absolutely no reason ) while trying to dial 911 . Sound ridiculous ? Yep , you bet it is . The entire movie looks like it was filmed on a VHS-quality camera , and I 'm assuming it was . The acting was mostly awful , and the special effects were far from believable . And the scenes with the policemen on the phone were awful - the voice on the other line was echoing and it sounded like it was being recorded in someone 's bathroom . Everything about this movie was simply amateurish and tedious , and it did n't hold my interest for very long , and I often found myself bored and tired , mostly because of the bad acting and the horrible cinematography . The pacing was bad . Everything was just bad . Overall , `` Severed '' is a failed attempt at what could have been a decent B-movie . The plot was good and I think if this film had been handled better and had a higher budget , it could 've been alright . But this movie fell flat on it 's face . If you 're expecting something semi-decent , you 'll be sorely disappointed . Only recommended if you can tolerate D-grade horror flicks . Otherwise , you 'll probably want to stay away from this straight-to-video garbage . It had a little potential , but it was beyond a mess . 1/10 .
The NSA , CIA , FBI , FSB and all other snoop agency in the world should watch this movie to gain information as to how to spy on people . ( as MST3k Commentary states it ... '' Sanata has the dirt on every ! Santa 's Tentacles reach far and wide ! There is no hiding from the Klaus Organization '' ) From telescopes that can spy over millions of miles to ears that can hear everything . Its amazing that the CIA does n't have Santa on the payroll . Satan 's dance routine is hilarious . Pitch ... he is so useless . The cheese factor in of this movie is tremendous . Very low budget but so fun to watch . I recommend watching the Mystery Science Theatre 3000 version for even more laughs . You even get a laugh at the missfortune of the good kids . I give this a 1 for production quality and a 10 for pure cheese and fun factor .
It WAS supposed to be the last Freddy movie ( and it was for over 10 years ) -- you would think they would have tried to get a good movie done . But they turned out giving us the worst of the series ( and that 's saying a lot ) . The plot made no sense ( I seriously ca n't remember it ) , all the main characters were idiots ( you REALLY wanted them dead ) and Freddy 's wisecracks were even worse than usual . The only remotely good bit about this was a brief ( and funny ) cameo by Johnny Depp ( the first `` Nightmare '' movie was his first ) . Also I originally saw it in a theatre were the last section ( reaccounting Freddy 's childhood ) was in 3-D. Well -- the 3-D was lousy -- faded colors and the image going in and out of focus . Also the three flying skulls which were supposed to be scary ( I think ) had the opposite reaction from my audience . EVERYBODY broke down laughing . Looks even worse on TV in 2-D . Pointless and stupid -- very dull also . Skip this one and see `` Freddy vs. Jason '' again .
Ram Gopal Verma has proved himself as a very innovative and competent director . He had done a remake/reworking of Godfather with Sarkar , and succeeded tremendously . Ditto for Lolita which he made as Nishaabd . Sholay is been the movie he repeatedly says has inspired him the most . Unfortunately , he has managed to make a disappointing and ultimately boring remake . The acting ranged from decent to very good , with Amitabh Bachchan being suitably menacing as the villain Babban . The songs were awful and forgettable . The Mehbooba Mehbooba song came off as a second rate music video . The worst part was the pacing , and the dialogues - which were forgettable . Watching the movie in a theatre , I found myself waiting for the intermission , and then for the ending . Some viewers were wise not to wait , and were seen leaving throughout the duration of the film . Ultimately , one of the worst movies made by Ram Gopal Verma .
I rented this movie from the library ( it 's hard to find for good reason ) purely out of curiosity . I 'm a huge Plath fan and this movie was a complete disappointment . The Bell Jar ( 1979 ) is by far one of the worst movies I 've ever seen . The script is horrible , not because it strays from the original novel text , but because it strays without focus or intent . The scenes are ill-constructed and do n't lead the viewer anywhere . What 's with the hokey voice over of Plath 's poetry ? Lady Lazarus has little do with Greenwood 's situation ; Plath 's poetry was completely misused . Marilyn Hassett is completely unbelievable as Esther Greenwood ( or any 20 year old for that matter ) partly due to casting ( she was 32 during filming , the age Plath was when she DIED ) and partly due to the fact that she ca n't act . Hassett is all emotion , no craft , no skill . The direction is mediocre ; the director simply covers what 's there , which is n't much . The only reason I 'm giving the film a 1 is because 0 is n't an option . Sorry Sylvia , you 'll have to wait for someone else to adapt your fine work into something more fitting .
The cult of personality has elevated the status of Roger Corman , Sam Arkoff , Lloyd Kaufman etc . as kings of the B 's . Because the folks at Crown International were so key , they have n't been elevated to the status they richly deserve . A film like THE VAN may now seem like a disposable piece of Drive-in esoteria , but it was a sizable hit when it was released ( not to mention subsequent re-releases as a double feature with other Crown hits ) . THE VAN was a perfect example of Crown 's hit strategy of seizing upon the mood of movie-goers at the time of a film 's release . Here , it was sex , drugs , rock 'n roll and the brief `` Custom Van '' fad . As others have noted , it is ironic that the `` hit '' song in the film refers to a Chevy when the title vehicle is a Dodge in the film itself . I had a town Selectman where I was at the time even declare these vans to be `` dens of sin on wheels ! '' A perfect ad line for the film ! There are the usual assortment of `` good '' and `` bad '' girls , muscle-heads and low-brow hijinks ( including a supporting bit by Danny DeVito ) . In many ways this is n't much different from the old Beach Party movies of the 60 's , but now spiced up with Nudity and Drug use . Obviously done on a limited budget and a limited schedule , the film coasts along pleasantly enough with a breezy charm that compensates for some , by today 's standards certainly , un-PC views of women . The classic touch is a Toaster for Bobby 's den of sin on wheels . Yes , a Toaster ! Hey , you got ta have something hot for those munchies ! Grindhouse Fest .
The movie starts out with some scrolling text which takes nearly five minutes . It gives the basic summary of what is going on . This could have easily been done with acting but instead you get a scrolling text effect . Soon after you are bombarded with characters that you learn a little about , keep in mind this is ALL you will learn about them . The plot starts to get off the ground and then crashes through the entire movie . Not only does the plot change , but you might even ask yourself if your watching the same movie . I have never played the video game , but know people who have . From my understanding whether you 've played the game or not this movie does not get any better . Save your money unless you like to sleep at the theaters .
This is the type of movie where it actually hurts to acknowledge that it really , really sucks . I normally sanctify stuff like this ! Early 70 's grindhouse flicks with scrumptious sounding titles and a schlocky low-budget atmosphere usually ROCK . `` House of Seven Corpses '' appeared to dispose of even more trumps , since the cast is a gathering of great genre veterans ( including John Carradine , John Ireland and Faith Domergue ) and the filming locations ( the titular house , the graveyard ) are obviously very expedient for a gloomy tale of terror . The film opens with its absolute greatest and most hauntingly memorable sequences , though sadly enough they 're the only ones that qualify as such . The credits are a splendid montage , complete with freakish color-effects and eerie freeze-frames , illustrating how the titular house received its notorious reputation . The last seven owners were mysteriously murdered here and the credits montage gleefully exhibits their final moments . Someone falls down the balcony screaming , a lady drowns in her bathtub , and another female body hangs dangling from the ceiling and four more macabre tableaux . Needless to say the house is cursed and the awkward behavior of t caretaker Mr. Price ( Carradine ) only fortify this reputation . In other words , the house forms the ideal turf for the acclaimed director Eric Hartman ( John Ireland ) to shoot his satanic horror film project . The film-within-film structure is what mainly causes `` House of Seven Corpses '' to be so boring and uneventful . A lot of movie-material is wasted on crew members putting films spools in the camera and dragging around cables or – even worse – Faith Domergue and Charles Macaulay portraying horridly intolerable actor stereotypes . The plot finally gets a little interesting ( only a little , mind you ) when one of the characters reads some lines from an occult book and accidentally awakes a rotting corpse in the backyard . The asthmatic ( judging by the noises he produces ) zombie slowly heads for the house and kills the entire movie crew , reminiscent of how the previous seven turned into corpses . After a running time of approximately 60 minutes , the film suddenly turns from humdrum into just plain weird and confusing . I 'm still unsure whether the final twist has to do with the concept of reincarnation or just coincidence and all the remaining characters suddenly seem to go undergo vast mental transformations shortly before they die , for some reason . I honestly regret confirming `` House of Seven Corpses '' is a pretty dreadful movie . The locations and scenery are gloomy chilling , but not nearly used to full effect and there 's a serious lack of gruesome bloodshed . Numerous low-budgeted 70 's gems were stunningly gross , so the lack of financial means is no excuse and the film-within-film murders really do n't count . Even the always-reliable veteran stars deliver hammy performances and Harrison 's direction is completely uninspired . Not recommended , unless you think the zero cool four-and-a-half minute playing opening credits montage is worth the effort of purchasing a copy .
I saw this movie when i was much younger and i thought it was funny . I saw it again last week , and you can guess the result . Some funny parts in it , very few and too long . The beginning is the only thing that is funny if you ask me . If you want a total b-movie this is a good pick , but do n't expect too much from aliens dwarf size
I 've seen some crappy movies in my life , but this one must be among the very worst . Definately bottom 100 material ( imo , that is ) . We follow two couples , the Dodds ( Billy Bob Thornton as Lonnie Earl and Natasha Richardson as Darlene ) and the Kirkendalls ( Patrick Swayze as Roy and Charlize Theron as Candy ) in one car on a roadtrip to Reno . Apparently , Lonnie is n't too happy with his sex-life , so he cheats on his wife with Candy , who 's despirately trying to have a baby . Roy , meanwhile , is n't too sure if his sperm is OK so he 's getting it checked by a doctor . Now , I had read the back of the DVD , but my girlfriend did n't , and she blurted out after about 20 minutes : 'oh yeah , she 's gon na end up pregnant but her husband ca n't have any baby 's ' . Spot on , as this movie is soooo predictable . As well as boring . And annoying . Meaningless . Offensive . Terrible . An example of how much this movie stinks . The two couples set out in their big car towards Nevada , when they are stopped by 2 police-officers , as they did n't stop at a stop-sign . The guys know each other and finally bribe the two officers with a case of beer . Not only is this scene pointless and not important ( or even relevant ) for the movie , it takes about 5 minutes ! It 's just talk and talk and talk , without ever going somewhere . I still have to puke thinking about the ending though . Apparently , Roy IS N'T having problems down there so he IS the father of the child . How many times does that happen in the movies ... try something new ! The cheated wife ultimately forgives her husband and best friend for having the affair and they all live happily ever after . Yuck . Best scene of the movie is right at the end , with a couple of shots of the Grand Canyon . Why could n't they just keep the camera on that for 90 minutes ? One would expect more from this cast ( although Thornton really tries ) , but you ca n't really blame them . Writers , shame on you ! 1/10 .
Richard Farnsworth is one of my favorite actors . He usually gives solid performances , such as in The Straight Story , and The Grey Fox . He also does fairly well here , but the rest of the film suffers from a low budget , poor writing , and so-so photography . The Miller-Movie formula gives it a 4 . Richard gets a 5 .
You MUST be kidding ! ! ! ! Let 's entertain the possibility that Parker Posey is really an actress , and not just some entry in the `` quirk of the month club '' of actors . Really , unless this is meant to be a tongue-in-cheek satire on David Mamet -- terse , confusing dialog delivered alternately in machine gun rapidity or monotone ( think Ben Stein ) blandness -- or a flat out dry comedy ; this film has got to be in the running for a Rotten Tomato Award -- -or worse . As if the stiff and uncomfortable Posey were n't enough , we 've got the stiffer and even more uncomfortable Jeff Goldblum . There 's more wood in this film than a toothpick factory . Adding to this already bizarre casting , are several other roles , all populated by forgettable actors , who look or sound like escapees from America 's Next Top Model , Don Pardo , or even the kid , who pronounces the word `` been '' like `` bean '' , which just brings our attention to the fact that there is so little to like about this film , we are analyzing his accent to guess if he 's Canadian or not ! ! I think I laughed heartily in places that are supposed to be serious , and took seriously sections that are meant to be humorous . Even the soundtrack sounds like a caricature of Alarik Jans music for Mamet 's `` The House of Games '' . If taken as a spoof , the film is almost droll ; if taken seriously , just a self-conscious piece of drek .
Oh my ... bad clothing , worse synth music and the worst : David Hasselhoff . The 80 's are back with vengeance in Witchery , an American-Italian co-production , helmed by infamous Joe 'D'Amato on the production side and short-careered director ( thank heavens for small miracles ) Fabrizio Laurenti directing . Marketed as a kind of sequel to Sam Raimi 's Evil Dead series in Italy ( that was dubbed `` La Casa '' in there ) , Witchery delivers some modest gore groceries and bad acting . A mix of ghost story , possessions and witchcraft , the film bounces clueless from scene to another without letting some seriously wooden actors and hilarious day and night mix-ups slow it 's progress to expectable ending , topped with some serious WTF surprise climax . ( I just love the look on her face ... ) Surprisingly Laurenti manages to gather some suspense and air of malice in few - very few - scenes ; unluckily for him , these few glimpses of mild movie magic go down quickly and effectively . The plus sides are experienced , when the gore hits the fan . This department is quite effective and entertaining in that classic latex and red paint style of the 80 's Italo-gore , when things were made 100 % hand-made and as shockingly and vivid as modest budgets could allow . I could only watch with sadistic glee and few laughters all the over-the-top ways that obnoxious characters ( and actors ) got mangled and misused , one by one . I only felt sorry for Linda Blair , who apparently have n't been let to try any other than that good old possessed girl / woman role ever in his career , or so it looks like when checking out his filmography . Well , folks - not much more to tell , and even less to tell home about . Do n't expect too much when spending some rainy afternoon with this , and probably you 'll experience at least some mild fun . It also helps if your rotten little heart pounds in the beat of 80 's euro gore horror . And speaking of hearts - every movie that has David Hasselhoff getting skewered by a sizeable metal object and bleeding heavily around the room and corridors , MUST have it 's one on the right place . This is my truth - what is yours ?
There is only one use for a film such as Bulletproof : it reminds you just how bad bad can be . We often see films which we describe as `` pretty awful '' or `` not much good '' , but then you come across a film like this and you can see that although all those other films are n't `` good '' they are no way as stinkingly bad as Bulletproof . This was a birthday gift from someone who spent less than two seconds rummaging thru ' the DVD bargain bin at our local superstore to fulfil an obligation ( i.e . to give me a present ) . It could have been a serendipitous find but it was n't : this is so utterly clichéd , so badly written , so poorly directed , so badly acted that I 'm surprised everyone involved has n't been arrested and sent down for 10 years . God , it 's awful . I suspected as much from about 30 seconds in , but carried on because sometimes - sometimes - bad films are so bad they can be enjoyable . This is n't one of them . It is simply bad . I stopped watching after 45 minutes , and tomorrow I shall throw it in the bin .
Revolution is a terrible movie , I do n't care if you 're a history teacher , news writer , Al Pacino fan , there 's no way this movie can possibly earn a legitimate '10 ' . The key point to the plot is Tom Dobb ( Al ) trying to get money from a note he got for radical patriots taking his boat . Everything revolves around that note . Tom 's son joins the army to make up for the note , making Tom join the army as well , they go on an adventure trying to get out of the army , years later the war is over and they can finally turn in the note for their boat . The End . It had a few battle scenes , and they were pretty mediocre at best . Transistions between scenes used `` five months later '' and magically put the characters in some famous historical battle . The love story is a joke , and the movie as a whole is just hard to follow . So save your `` Notes '' and watch the Patriot instead .
Wow . Who ever said that Edward D. Wood Jr. never influenced anybody ? This steaming pile of donkey excrement is a perfect case in point ; it makes `` The Violent Years '' look like `` Casablanca '' ! `` Santa Claus '' also makes Keith Richards ' worst flashbacks look like my first nocturnal emission . I 've had nightmares , you know , waking up and sweating bullets , that will never come close to the visceral terror that Santa Claus unearthed from the seemingly pure soil of my very being . However , I can think of some parties where this film might actually go over well . Also , if you 're looking for the perfect example of a Santa-Satan dichotomy on VHS tape , look no further . Do n't check out this movie , as I 've been notified the MST3K version is now available . Move over Satan , here 's `` Santa Claus '' .
This movie was made for fans of Dani ( and Cradle of Filth ) . I am not one of them . I think he 's just an imitator riding the black metal bandwagon ( still , I 'm generally not a fan of black metal ) . But as I was carrying this DVD case to pay for it , I convinced myself , that the less authentic something is the more it tries to be convincing . Thus I assumed I 'm in for a roller-coaster ride of rubber gore and do-it-yourself splatter with a sinister background . Now , that is what I do like . I got home and popped it in . My patience lasted 15 minutes . AWFUL camera work and DISGUSTING quality . And that was then ( 2002 ) , that it looked like it was shot using a Hi8 camcorder . I left it on the shelf . Maybe a nice evening with beer and Bmovies would create a nice setting for this ... picture . After a couple of months I got back to it ( in mentioned surroundings ) and saw half . Then not only the mentioned aspects annoyed me . My disliking evolved . I noticed how funny Dani ( 1,65m ; 5'5 '' height ) looked in his platform shoes ripping a head of a mugger apart . ( Yes , ripping . His head apparently had no skull . ) I also found that this movie may have no sense . Still , I have n't finished it yet , so I was n't positive . After a couple more tries I finally managed to finish this flick - a couple of months back ... ( Yes , it took me 5,5 years . ) So - Dani in fact was funny as Satan/Manson/super-evil-man 's HELPER and the movie DID NOT make sense . See our bad person employs Dani to do bad things . He delivers . Why ? Well I guess he 's just very , very bad . As a matter of fact they both are and that is pretty much it . We have a couple of short stories joined by Dani 's character . My favourite was about a guy , who STEALS SOMEONE 'S LEG , because he wants to use it as his own . Yeah , exactly . The acting 's ROCK BOTTOM . The CGI is the worst ever . I mean Stinger beats it ( and , boy , is Stinger 's CGI baaaaad ) . The story has no sense . And the quality is ... Let 's just say it is not satisfying . The only thing that might keep you watching is the unmotivated violence and gore . Blood and guts are made pretty well . Why , you can actually see that the movie originated there and then moved on . ( Example - Dani 'The Man ' Filth takes a stuffed cat - fake as can be - and guts it ... and then eats what fell out . Why ? We never know . We do know , however , that this cat must have been on illegal substances , as his heart is almost half his size . ) You might think , after my comment that this movie is so bad it 's good , but it 's just bad . Cradle of Filth fans can add 3 points . I added one for gore .
As you can guess by my rating and my title of this review that I do n't like Johnny Test . Now I think I know what people are going to say , `` How do you know how bad it is ? Have you ever watched it ? `` , I did watch this show a couple times because I am studying film and animation and this just does n't hold a candle to my standards . I want to first talk about the animation because it is one of the most confusing things I have ever seen . Like the first two seasons or only first season had hand drawn animation . I thought it was a nice show to look at when it was hand drawn but then it switched to flash animation and the quality went down by a huge amount . So that is one strike in my eyes but lets look at the story of the show . It tries way too hard to be like Dexter 's lab but there are differences because instead of one red headed scientist there is two and they are both female . There is a talking dog ( why ? ) , and the parents attitudes are switched somewhat . I have others but I do n't think I can write them here ( I do n't mean cursing but I mean I do n't know if there is a limit for words. ) . Everything else though is spot on , even a DeeDee character Johnny himself . It just tries so hard to be Dexter but it just seems to me like a heartless knockoff . Lastly I want to talk about the jokes . Remember in Dexters lab some of the jokes involved yelling ? Yes , yelling can be good for a joke or two but Dexter 's lab also had sly remarks that made me have to go back and check to get the joke . Johnny Test just forgets all that and just yells 50 % of the time and stops the music whenever a stupid joke or one liner appears . That is n't comedy , thats stupid comedy ( I know what some people are thinking . Is n't three stooges stupid comedy ? Watch that and Johnny Test back to back and you laugh more at the first option. ) . Sometimes the jokes are based on bizarre situations which , like Chowder , makes me mad . I have a rule for cartoons and comedies all together : To much bizarre does n't equal comedy , it makes you just think `` what am I watching ? '' . So it strikes out on all accounts . Do n't watch this show if you have any respect for comedy in anyway , shape , or form .
If you want to know what kind of music white people listened to in 1974 , this is the movie for you . But you 'll have to listen to a lot of flutes and violins , too ( see my remarks on My Girl 1 for the reference ) . Indulgent admission : I approached My Girl 2 with cynicism and annoyance , having just viewed its predecessor . But as an adoptee preparing to finally set upon a search for my birthmother , My Girl 2 made me look , with its theme of searching for mother . Put another way , anything I liked about My Girl 2 had nothing whatsoever to do with My Girl 2 , but relating to a protagonist who asks , like so many adoptees , `` who 's my mama '' ? And if there are home movies of my mom in an acting troupe , I 'll be sure to make my own movie about it . People are listless . Movies should not be listless . My Girl 2 ( like My Girl 1 ) is just ... listless . Avoid unless you 're a complete sap who 's comforted by a series of small annoyances .
Animal Farm ( 1954 ) was a very good read about the dangers of totalitarianism . How good ideals can be changed and distorted by those who are ignorant or rule with an iron fist and an empty head . Sadly this movie does not portray either of these . What we 're shown is a propaganda piece with a lot of finger waving and pointing . The animation and the direction were good considering the budget and the time period but the very essence of George Orwell 's novel is sorely missing . If you 're one of those who want to see how not to adapt a novel or are just interested in seeing an adaptation of this brilliant novelette then by all means watch . I just found this one to be somewhat mediocre . Just one man 's opinion however . The remake is a notch below but not by much .
`` Ambushed '' is no ordinary action flick . It 's much to bad to be ordinary . One man walks toward another with a machine gun blazing . The other man fires one round and fells the man with the greater fire power without so much as a nick from the hail of lead raining down on him . Guess which one is the good guy . Duh . Such is `` Ambushed '' through and through . Not a good action flick , not a good drama , not a good movie , `` Ambushed '' fails on all levels with it 's cast of B-movie veterans mechanically going through the motions almost as though they know they 're making a real loser . Not recommended for anyone .
They probably should have called this movie The Map because the majority of the whole stupid film is revolved around a map of a cemetery . Not to mention how many of the same boring shots of the map there are . The only thing they show more than the map itself is the little beads of sweat that is constantly building up on the forehead of our main character . This of course was the film makers way of showing us how incredibly tense things are getting up on the Immortal Hills Cemetery . Come on now , could n't they have shown us just one of the death scenes ? We hear a whole lot about how everyone who is listed on the map is dropping like flies but we do n't get to see anything . Some how I Bury The Living manged to keep my attention so i was fairly generous with the rating i gave it but i will not recommend this movie to anyone . Unless you have a deep fascination with maps or sweat i recommend renting a better I movie , such as I Spit On Your Grave or I Drink Your Blood .
This movie had good intentions and a good story to work with . The director and screenwriter of this movie failed miserably and created a dull , boring filmstrip that made me feel like I was back in Mr. Hartford 's 8th grade Social Studies class -- way back in 67 . What a waste , will somebody please take this story and make a real movie out of it - the story deserves it . Every time a scene had potential , all we were left with were a few clichés , combined with black and white footage that they probably got from The History Channel to show the action . Shameful . Ossie Davis was the only bright light in this dull fest . The other acting was incredibly dull - it fit in with the movie well and whomever played the Captain set a new low standard for line delivery . However , if you are willing to accept all the numerous flaws in this movie and are n't concerned with being awed or entertained , but want to learn about the USS Mason , it is worth a watch .
The film is based on a genuine 1950s novel . Journalist Colin McInnes wrote a set of three `` London novels '' : `` Absolute Beginners '' , `` City of Spades '' and `` Mr Love and Justice '' . I have read all three . The first two are excellent . The last , perhaps an experiment that did not come off . But McInnes 's work is highly acclaimed ; and rightly so . This musical is the novelist 's ultimate nightmare - to see the fruits of one 's mind being turned into a glitzy , badly-acted , soporific one-dimensional apology of a film that says it captures the spirit of 1950s London , and does nothing of the sort . Thank goodness Colin McInnes was n't alive to witness it .
This film has got several key flaws . The first and most significant of which is the clear lack of a good plot ! This sadly makes the film not only difficult to watch but also sends the watcher certain feelings of hopelessness , as if he or she is wasting valuable time of their short life . This means that the film can not captivate it 's audience , instead it encourages the viewing public to grow contempt for the film and everything associated with it ! In short , it really is very very very very very very very BAD ! Do yourself a favour and chew on a large rubber shoe , you 'll find it far more interesting and enjoyable than watching Terminator Woman .
Ugh ! Where to begin ... first , Campbell Scott 's non-stop angst becomes a real turn-off after awhile ( a very short while ) as he internalizes his mounting anguish , curiosity and anger . Only we do n't care ! These characters as presented by the writer and director are wholly unlikable , and therein lies the key . They have n't given us anything to make us care if they are adulterous and whether or not they are still in love with one another . When Scott quietly tells his wife , `` I could kill you '' before their three daughters at the dinner table , after the shock of his selfishly poor timing wore off I almost wished that he had -- and then done the same thing to the smug , wisecracking apparition of Denis Leary before being hauled off the the looney bin . An utter waste of time and perhaps -- only perhaps -- resources .
I 'm sorry to report that I have seen this film several times . When it bombed at the box office , it was repeated nightly for about a month on HBO . And I watched it over and over because television in general is so bad -- or was at that time . I no longer watch , so it might be wonderful now -- like Samuel L Jackson says about swine , `` It might taste like sweet potato pie , but I 'll never know because I would n't eat the filthy mfer . '' Let 's see . Dudley plays Arthur wandering in the desert , always a few steps behind Moses . It came out right after Life of Bryan , so you can guess where the inspiration for this came from . The few mildly funny bits go on way too long until you just close your eyes and grit your teeth . There 's one scene where Arthur and Dom Deluise meet in the desert , both of them dragged out and dessicated , dying of thirst . Then they meet like old acquaintances who did n't really know each other very well , promise to do lunch . It could have been funny . But the scene that I remember most clearly is a meeting with pharaoh in which pharaoh is a black street kid done up in full King Tut regalia . He must have read the lines straight because at some point before the release , they overdubbed his scene with the Hollywood equivalent of black street lingo voiced by a Jimmy Walker wannabe ( Kid Dyno-wannabe ) . Or it might have been Jimmy Walker -- who knows ? Who cares . They managed to turn an essentially boring scene into a very racist , very unfunny , very long piece of excrement , one of those legendary things that just wo n't flush , no matter how many times you try , so you leave it there for someone else to deal with . Well that 's my review . If you rent this movie ( DO N'T BUY IT , WHATEVER YOU DO ! ) prepare yourself with a bottle of tequila and a six pack of Corona . Now that they 've remade the Poseiden Adventure , this one is probably high on the list for remakes . Maybe they 'll hire a comedy writer this time .
Now I myself am a lover of the B movie genre but this piece of trash insults me to no end . First of all the movie is starring Lizzy McGuire 's brother as the annoying little kid that goes looking for his lost 3 legged dog . Now please what kind of dumb ass mistakes a three-legged dog for a god damn mutated crocodile please I ask you ? And heres another point for pondering , why do they show the Dinocroc on the back of the movie box being enormous and actually in the water ? I believe if memory serves the thing spent about 2.6 minutes in the water and was just shy of 6 feet tall , that was a heart breaker . But redeeming qualities to this movie were that it was so bad that i almost died laughing because believe me the bad acting made me wish for death . But the fact remains that once again this thing is created by another military testing site to train super crocodiles for military combat or something like that from the source of all things evil E.V.I.L Corporation . And let 's not forget the characters let 's see we have jerk off # 1 as the male lead and half way decent chick ( who does n't know how to act ) as the female lead to that I say WOW ! The only thing worse then the acting was the end of course the heroes spend about what seems like 2 hours talking and planning some long elaborate way of killing the dinocroc only to have it fail and kill it in an ordinary way that could have taken about 15 seconds to come up with . All in all this movie was beyond gay with its random opera music in the background and the fact that it was probably the gayest of all CGI monsters ever made along with the fact it of course was impervious to bullets and bombs ( otherwise it would n't have been made for the military DUH ! ) . By far the best scene was when Lizzy McGuire 's brother runs into the shack and the dinocroc eats him causing his head to pop clean off with a popping noise i might add . I believe that you would be better off shooting yourself between the eyes then to watch Dinocroc . And as for the director I believe that we should get a bunch of people to hang him by a noose and all take turns kicking him in the crotch for wasting an hour and a half of our lives until he finally dies and then I can go on living .
I 've tried to watch this show several times , but for a show called `` That '70s Show , '' I do n't find much apart from a few haircuts and the occasional reference to disco that actually evokes the '70s -- the decade in which I grew up . Of the episodes I have seen , most of the plots and jokes could be set in any time period . Take away the novelty of ( supposedly ) being set in the '70s , and the show is neither interesting nor funny . If you 're looking for a show that more successfully represents the experience of youth in America in the '70s , in my humble opinion you can do no better than `` The Wonder Years . ''
Just PPV 'd this . I do n't want to waste too much time on this as most of the posters here put it better than I ever could , but I did want to say a few things . I did n't know which was funnier : Redgrave chasing tiny moths and tripping over her nurse ; Close wailing that her `` precious '' boy ( whom she and the Mr. had decided was a drunken loser ) has been turned into roadkill ; that the tone-deaf Ann schmoozed with Peggy Lee ; or the horrid CGI of Crypt Keeper Annie gazing at her younger self ! I never bought Danes as the younger Redgrave . I did n't buy Richardson and Collette as sisters , either . If Meryl Streep 's daughter wants to be an actress , she better get Mama to give her a few lessons ! I had zero idea why any girl ( or Buddy ) would make fools of themselves over vapid stud du jour Harris ! Ann 's daughters are as whiny and thoughtless as she , Luc is a retarded slacker on crack , and I did n't give a rot about any of them ! Evening gives Chick Flicks a bad name !
Ummm , please forgive me , but were n't more than half the characters missing ? In the original novel , Valjean is a man imprisoned for 19 years for stealing a loaf of bread and then attempting several times to escape . He breaks parole and is pursued relentlessly by the police inspector Javert . Along the way there are MANY characters that were n't in this version . Some worth mentioning would be Fantine , Cosette , M & Mme . Thenardier , Eponine , Marius , Gavroche , and Enjolras . The only character with the same name is Javert . I was confused and frustrated throughout the whole movie , trying to see how it was in any way connected to Victor Hugo 's epic novel .
This movie is not in anyway funny , it tries to be funny with it 's lame humor , which is so dry and boring that the movie is just 2 hours of torture . Throughout the whole movie i was thinking one thing , `` when is this gon na end '' . One thing you have to hand to them , is that they do have a very few mildly funny moments , which is also why i gave it a whole 2 stars . It is unoriginal and uses up almost every old blonde joke in the book , even the ones that was n't funny the first time . It basically is a movie to belittle blondes and to record the whole repetoir of blonde jokes . To sum it all up , this movie is blonde humor gone bad , it is not worth paying any amount of money to watch , it is just that bad .
This movie causes more unintentional laughter than anything else I 've ever seen . Really , if you are a Tolkien fan , rent it just to laugh at it with your friends . I wo n't be the millionth person to rip apart its flaws ... all I will say is that the movie ( for me , anyway ) lost major points for turning my favorite character , Sam , into a bumbling idiot . Shame , shame ... 3/10
I never like to comment on a good film but when it comes to a bad movie , I got ta come really hard on it . Talking about Vivah , this guy , Sooraj Badjatya , seems to have completely lost it . After success of Hum Aapke Hain Kaun , he thought he can make money with cheesy wedding videos . Vivah is so so cheesy that Badjatyas have left Johars and Chopras behind . There was not a single moment during the movie where I can say 'Oh ! at least this thing is good ' . Aloknath does cliché in a role of Girl 's father , Shahid kapoor looks fat and Shahrukhed , Amrita rao is another disaster in addition to ugly looking sets , bad costumes , hackneyed storyline , monstrous stepmother , trying-hard-to-act actors , cacophonous background music , cheap soundtracks . Now the spoiler , I 'm warning you guys that as happens in all his other movies , after a calamitous incidence movie ends on a happy note .
Actually , the movie is neither horror nor Sci-Fi . With a very strong Christian religious theme , this movie delivers minimal content and no suspense . Second-tier actors do half-decent jobs of reading their boring roles . The only good performance is by Sydney Penny who plays a role of a mother of ... I wo n't spoil the movie , it 's either Christ or Anti-Christ . Avoid watching this movie unless you a Christian religious fanatic obsessed with apocalypse . Being a non-Christian , I had to force myself to watch this movie just because I wanted to write this review . It 's a pity that Sci-Fi channel had to air this movie at the peak evening time .
Following the disasterous Revolution , this film was pretty much the final nail in the coffin of Goldcrest and thus the British Film Industry . The film is absolute pants , it 's full of music from the attempted mid-80 's jazz revival and based on a book & author that was briefly popular at that time and has deservedly sank back into obscurity . Temple searched for ages trying to find Suzette and came up with 8th Wonders Patsy Kensett another person who was briefly popular at the time . By the time the film came out of post production the Jazz revival was over , as was Kensett 's career and the film met a totally uncaring film public . Mediocre would be an overstatement for some of the worst/campest/cheesiest acting to ever grace the British silver screen watching it almost 20 years on and the film is truely cringeworthy .
Blue monkey is actually mentioned in the film but not in any way that makes any possible sense . At one point , some kids are wandering thru the deeper levels , exploring . They begin to discuss what they 'll find down there and one of them ( a girl ) says she bets they 'll find a blue monkey . Yes , thats it . Totally inconsequential to the story , the only sad connection to the title , and no idea why she would suppose she 'd find a blue monkey in a hospital 's basement . I 'm embarrassed for having remembered it but somebody had to remember I suppose !
Too bad , I really like Kristen Cloke and Gary Busey . But the director failed to put this together . There 's a lot of action , a lot of promise , but it all comes off hokey . The director did n't do his job . Promising action comes off lame . So much seems contrived in a desperate attempt to save the film . This version of `` The Rage '' ( DirecTV credits it as 1996 ) simply is n't worth the time to watch it . Another director would have done a better job .
Watching That Lady In Ermine I was wondering what Betty Grable was doing in a project that seemed to be aimed for Marlene Dietrich to do . Someone over at 20th Century Fox may have decided one sex symbol is as good as another . Darryl F. Zanuck should have known better . Betty plays a 19th century Italian countess whose domain has been invaded by a troop of Hungarian Hussars captained by Douglas Fairbanks , Jr . Her ghostly ancestor whose portrait hangs in the palace hall along with the rest of her distinguished family tree , sees no small resemblance in Doug now and another invader some 300 years earlier whom she dealt with when armies failed . Besides that the current Betty has just been married to Cesar Romero and the invasion has come at a most inopportune moment , before things have been consummated . That 's going to give anyone a bad attitude , I guarantee . Fresh , wholesome all American Betty is NOT the actress to do seductive and mysterious . Marlene Dietrich might have put this over , but with Betty it falls flatter than yesterday 's presidential candidate . She and Fairbanks have no chemistry at all , though Doug is as charming as ever and someone I can watch in anything . Frederick Hollander and Leo Robin wrote the score for this film and This Is The Moment got an Oscar nomination for Best Song . That Lady In Ermine 's one chance for Oscar glory fell to Buttons And Bows . Ernest Lubitsch died midway during the film and Otto Preminger finished That Lady In Ermine . I ca n't believe Lubitsch had Grable in mind for the lead here . Neither will you if you see That Lady In Ermine .
Anita and Me seems to be little more than an excuse for Meera Syal , the author of the novel and screenplay , to air her prejudices , grievances and general antipathy towards the English . The general sentiment of Indian superiority over the English in this film is foul . The English people in this film are portrayed as overweight , violent , foul-mouthed , promiscuous , engaging in child neglect , stupid , uneducated , racist , ugly , eating poor food , and dim-witted -- tellingly , only by turning to Indian culture can the local priest be `` redeemed '' at the end of the film . By contrast , the Indian family are beautiful , clever , educated , can speak many languages , are caring and loving parents , and grammar-school fodder . The film is so insidiously prejudicial that I am astonished the BBC funded it at all . Had it been the other way round , an English family in an Indian community depicted this way , the film would have been seen as racist . There were a few moments where my eyebrow shot so far up my forehead , I thought it would lodge in my hairline . First , the gossip scene between the women at the Divali celebration -- undertext : the English are dirty and promiscuous -- and the men -- undertext : English women are prostitutes . Second , the meal with Anita where Neema 's family lie to her about cutlery -- undertext : the English are so stupid , you can make them do anything . But the underlying contempt towards anything English -- even English weddings are an object of scorn -- is evident all the way through the film . The character of Anita was drawn so appallingly -- almost the fallen woman trope -- that I finished the film feeling angry . This is not a `` Bend it like Beckham '' where the humour is focused on loving exaggerations of a community 's behaviour and customs from somebody within that community , and is a film about two girls from different backgrounds coming together . Instead , Anita and Me seems to convey that a form of cultural apartheid is inevitable , as the English are almost an version of the Indian Untouchable caste , and this is underscored by a thinly-veiled series of attacks upon the film 's `` other '' community : the English . I felt Anita and Me is a hate-filled , grievance-based piece of work . On that basis , the BBC should not have funded its production .
Do n't waste your time on this film . It could have been good , but the ending was one of the lamest I 've ever seen . I seriously have to wonder how the people involved with the making of this film could 've looked at that final scene and thought , `` yeah ! now there 's an ending ! '' and patted themselves on the back about it . To me it seemed more like they just ran out of ideas ! They built up the final scenes to have a cool twist , but instead just let the whole build-up fall flat on it 's face . When the last shot faded to black and I heard the credit music starting I was in shock - I could not believe what I was seeing and that someone could even call that an ending . The best thing anyone could do with this film is rewrite the end and give it some substance . Seriously , I 'd really love to get whoever came up with that one in a room , look them in the face and say - WTF ? ? ! ! ! !
note to George Litman , and others : the Mystery Science Theater 3000 riff is `` I do n't think so , *breeder* '' . my favorite riff is `` Why were you looking at his 'like ' ? `` , simply for the complete absurdity . that , and `` Right well did not ! '' over all , I would say we must give credit to the MST3K crew for trying to ridicule this TV movie . you really ca n't make much fun of the dialog ; Bill S was a good playwright . on the other hand , this production is so bad that even he would disown it . a junior high school drama club could do better . I would recommend that you buy a book and read 'Hamlet ' .
Steven Vasquez directed and co-wrote with James Townsend , the star , this strange little drama cum horror flick with evidently very good ideas and intentions : make a gay film that takes a different storyline than the usual fare and make a drama that wants to be judged on its merits as a thriller . So why does n't it work ? For starters the film loses direction from the opening frame and wanders rather aimlessly throughout the film , dead set on making a suspense thriller but getting sidetracked into satisfying an audience who wants to see nude encounters . Not that that is a bad thing : it can certainly enhance some films that have been Hollywood successes . The film also tries to talk about coming out experiences in young men and women , relationships , disturbed parenting , the club scene with all the wild antics that accompany such events - and murder . It is all a bit much to cram into a 96-minute film . Devon ( James Townsend ) by all appearances is a successful kid with a kind girlfriend Jenna ( Sarah Kelly ) but he has an eye for boys and visits a bar where he meets Brian ( Alex Wilson ) who has been down the same path and can offer Devon assistance on every level . They bond , Devon comes out , and the mysteries begin : boys are missing in the neighborhood , Devon 's stepfather psychologist Dr. Kirk Tyler ( Dan Swett ) is not at all what he appears to be and despite Devon 's consoling mother Donna ( Sonja Fisher ) Devon is cast into the streets because of his new relationship . It seems Dr Tyler is in a dark business with hunky Detective Cunningham ( Earl McDougle ) who apparently is investigating the missing boys ... Devon gathers his resources from his understanding girlfriend Jenna and her cronies and together the group unveils the dark doings of Dr. Tyler and his detective sidekick . And through it all Donna radiates warmth and understanding as the perfect mother of a gay boy , etc . Some of the actors are pleasing to the eye ( and there is very little the eye does n't examine frequently ! ) but the degree of acting is at an all time low . The only thing that makes us forgive that ( and in some cases it is just too poor to forgive ) is the feeling of commitment on the part of everyone involved . Yes , this is a low budget movie and yes , the director needs time to learn his trade . But in the end there is something to be said for the involved people to try to take a gay film to a different level . Maybe their next one will be more polished . Grady Harp
I just want to make one thing clear- I love Michael Vartan ! But this film really lets him down . His acting is still superb , he 's still as charming as ever , and he still looks great . But the film itself is a load of rubbish ! Natasha Henstridge , I 'm sorry to say it , comes over bit manly ... you 're constantly waiting for her to run off with her best friend , who 's own sub-storyline is a little weird . Myself and my family ( who sat down and watched the film with me ) were also put off by the soundtrack to the film ; at times the music just did n't fit with what was going on in the scenes . However , even this was not the worst aspect of what I found to be a very disappointing film . I could forgive the leading lady 's butch-ness , I could forgive the freakish characters that were thrown in to the mix , and I could forgive the poor choice of musical accompaniment , but whose choice was it to cut out the whole middle section of the film and skip straight to the end ? ? ? The ending was obviously planned from the beginning but how it gets there is left untold . If you 're a Michael Vartan fan skip this film : buy yourself a poster instead .
$ 25,000 Pyramid Clues : Deep Blue Sea . Tremors . Slither . Eight Legged Freaks . Pyramid Category : Movies that were funnier and more thrilling than Snakes on a Plane . Hell , with that definition I 'd have to include the relatively harrowing journey of Ted and Elaine in Airplane ! as superior to Snakes in both laughs and thrills . The sad truth is that this is n't even close to the mother of all unintentionally intentional funny snake movies : Anaconda ! Besides the never to be seen again casting of JLo-Cube-O.Wilson-Stoltz-Wuhrer in the same flick , you had Jon Voight pulling off the all-time cinematic heist . His final scene alone represents everything SOAP tried and failed to do as a `` so-ludicrous-it's-fun '' movie . In the end , Snakes on a Plane is definitive proof that studio execs and fanboys make the worst collaborators possible . Every big scene had been discussed and dissected so much the last year , all that was left to amuse by opening night was the amount of fanboy flop-sweat that had to be mopped up at my theater . I heard more forced laughs here than at a studio taping for `` According to Jim '' .
Jean Claude Van Damme tries to rescue his career by making the sequel of Universal Soldier . But , did that movie saved him ? I think he goes to hell , after he dies . In the first minute , we see the inside of a facility , where you can see the bad guy of the film . Scary , huh ? But not as scary as the acting ( details are following ) . Then , we see Van Damme with a black girl ( do not remember the name ... .well it does n't matter anyway ) , trying to escape from some muscle-men . Of course they are the new Universal-Soldiers . More muscels , less brain ( just like the movie ) . After a while , Van Damme fights Goldberg but then the `` mission '' gets aborted . It was just a test ( Is this movie a test for our nerves ? ) . It turns out that Van Damme works for the government on the new Universal Soldier project ( Who has seen the first movie may think that this is the most unlogical thing , that yould Van Dammes character could do ) . But it is a sequel . And a `` story '' has to come up . Ah , I forgot . He has a daughter . Very important for the `` story '' . Well , after about 20 minutes , a super computer hears a conversation about shutting it down and quitting he project . Of course the cube gets angry and activates all soldiers to kill everyone . Van Damme escapes from the facility BUT the computer sends some soldiers hunting him ( It wants Van Damme as a soldier - because he is the best ( really ? ) ) . And guess what , Goldberg is one of the hunters , who was always a silly sentence for the audience before he gets asskicked . Funny ? Yes , just like the rest of the film . After some `` story '' , Van Damme tries to rescue his daughter ( of his wife - the reporter in the first movie ) . It comes to a final show down where Van Damme fights the Bad Guy and you can see the most expensive scene of the whole movie ( please see for yourself . It is just too funny to tell ) . You 'll see that this movie is a waste of time . So do not watch it . But if you do , keep a sixpack with you !
`` Problem Child '' is one of the goofiest movies ever made . It 's not the worst ( though some people will disagree with me on that ) , but it 's not the best either . It 's about a devilish 7-year-old boy who wrecks comic havoc on a childless couple ( John Ritter , Amy Yasbeck ) who foolishly adopts him . This film is too silly and unbelievable because I do n't buy for one second that a child could act as unrurly as the kid does in this film . It 's asinine and preposterous although I did laugh several times throughout ( I really do n't know why ) . But I ca n't recommend this film . I know I 'm being too kind to it . If there is one positive thing about `` Problem Child '' is that it 's better than the sequel which was just awful . ** ( out of four )
First , let me just comment on what I liked about the movie . The special effects were fantastic , and very rarely did I feel like I was watching a video game . There , that is the last nice thing I have to say about this film . In fact , I would just like everyone reading this to take note that I ca n't even put into words how hard it was for me to write this review without swearing . I have innumerable complaints about the film , but four major complaints jump to mind . My first major complaint has to do with the incredible cheesiness of the `` plot twist '' ( if you can call it that since most people probably saw it coming a mile away ) where Lois 's 5 year-old son turns out to be the super-powered child of Superman . When the crying super-child throws a piano at Lex 's henchman to save his mother , I almost got up and left the theater . Singer could have made a much better Superman movie without resorting to cheap gimmicks like a seemingly fragile but latently super-powered illegitimate child . It 's been 5 days since I saw the movie and I still want to vomit . My next major complaint has to do with the fact that Superman lifts a continent made out of kryptonite up into outer space . It does n't take comic book guy from the Simpsons to point out what 's wrong with that . I do n't know how many comic books Brian Singer has read , but when Superman is exposed to even a small amount of kryptonite he barely has the strength to stay on his feet . Whoever had the idea to have him fly a large island made out of his greatest weakness into space has no business being associated with any Superman-related projects ever again . The concept is as ridiculous as making a Dracula movie where the title character has a stake through his heart and still manages to fly a spaceship made out of garlic into the sun . Why not just have Superman eat kryptonite ? He can eat it and then brush his teeth with it , and then go to sleep in kryptonite pajamas . That 's not any more absurd then having him hoist a continent of kryptonite into space and then fall powerless through the atmosphere without burning up in re-entry or splattering all over central park when he hits the ground . My third major complaint has to do with the fact that Singer slaps movie-goers across the face with religious symbolism the entire movie . I have to take issue with his characterization of Superman as the only son of a God-like Jor-el sent to Earth to be a savior . Jor-el was n't all-wise , he was just a scientist . And he did n't send his son to earth to be a savior , he threw him in a rocket and hurriedly fired it into space because his planet was about to explode . I 'll buy the Christ allegory if Brian Singer can show me the part in the Bible where God sends Christ to Earth because Heaven was about to explode , and then radioactive pieces of Heaven become Christ 's primary weakness . Furthermore , the `` crucifixion '' scene where Luthor stabs Superman in the side with a kryptonite `` spear '' just makes me want to slam my face into a brick until I 'm too brain-dead to notice the brazenly obvious and inappropriate symbolism that will be tainting the man of steel for the foreseeable future . They might as well rename this movie `` Superman Returns : the Passion of the Christ . '' And speaking of Luthor , my last major complaint has to do with Singer 's depiction of Lex Luthor . Lex Luthor is a shrewd , cold-hearted business tycoon who is more apt to run for President ( which he does in the comics ) than try to destroy the world . The man wants money and power ; he wants to be in charge , not wreck everything . Yet the Luthor we see Superman Returns , as well as all the previous Superman movies , is a wacky theatrical dunce who comes up with zany schemes to destroy the world . If Singer had the slightest loyalty to the characters instead of the ( quite awful ) previous Superman movies , this film might not be such an unbearable travesty . Maybe Singer 's next project can be a Batman movie where he focuses on the interpretation of Batman from 1960s TV show . ZAM ! WHAP ! POW ! ! To summarize , I do n't know what I hate more , the movie itself or the fact that so many people seem to be giving it good reviews . Everyone is entitled to their opinion , but if you do n't hate this movie then your opinion is wrong . I sincerely encourage anyone who reads this not to see this movie if you have n't already . Do n't see it , do n't buy it when it comes out on DVD , do n't rent it ... basically do n't contribute any money towards it in any way . This movie does not deserve to make any money . In fact , I think that for every person that sees this movie , Bryan Singer should be fined 45 billion dollars . If you 're a Superman fan and you really want to see this movie , just bend over and have someone kick you in the balls and you 'll get the same experience without having to waste 2 hours of your time .
What `` Noise '' fails to do is get us to understand its character . Tim Robbins plays an obsessive New Yorker who ca n't deal with the obtrusive noises of the city any longer , particularly car alarms . It 's an odd idea for a film , which has about as much creative credibility as `` Death Wish . '' It is clever at points ; particularly a scene in which our hero is trying to read through Hagel , `` I 'm too stupid to be understanding this . '' He reads and rereads a paragraph in confusion , we read it and do n't get it either.Just then a car alarm goes off . Throughout the movie is constant interference of alarms and city noises . Though , all in all it does little to help us understand our hero , who allows this all to ruin his marriage and gets distracted with side plots instead of digging deeper-into his persona . The film-making itself is too oblivious to notice its own sound problems , shoddy editing , and visible boom mikes . No , `` Noise '' is n't all-bad . William Hurt is at least colorful . At least the ending does n't fall flat . Overall it drives home a logistical point , one you have n't probably thought of . At least I had n't . Though all in all , ninety minutes long , it could n't have ended sooner . The story dragged on and seemed to be lost as soon as it started . This is another one of those movies that you might see at a film festival , but probably wo n't get picked up for distribution . Check it out on DVD if you 're really partial to someone involved in the project . Otherwise skip it .
Creepshow 2 had a lot of potential , they just did n't put enough time in perfecting it . The stories were pretty cool and creepy enough , but it was lacking . It 's a good movie , but after you 've seen it once , you might want to see it again . This movie could of been better .
