You to the middle , you to the right , you to the left .
Ca n't exactly say what 'll be done to him arter he 's dead if he tells a lie to the gentlemen here , but believes it 'll be something wery bad to punish him , and serve him right -- and so he 'll tell the truth .
So he says , " You are right , Volumnia , " which Volumnia is extremely glad to hear .
Oh , yes , it 's all right enough .
Do you see this hand , and do you think that I do n't know the right time to stretch it out and put it on the arm that fired that shot ? "
Shirking and sharking in all their many varieties have been sown broadcast by the ill-fated cause ; and even those who have contemplated its history from the outermost circle of such evil have been insensibly tempted into a loose way of letting bad things alone to take their own bad course , and a loose belief that if the world go wrong it was in some off-hand manner never meant to go right .
As Richard still continued to say that he was fixed in his choice after repeated periods for consideration had been recommended by Mr. Jarndyce and had expired , and he still continued to assure Ada and me in the same final manner that it was " all right , " it became advisable to take Mr. Kenge into council .
He had established such a long prescriptive right to this deportment ( his son 's inheritance from his mother ) that I several times knew both Caddy and her husband to be melted to tears by these affectionate self-sacrifices .
But ony you tell the young lady wot the genlmn ses , and it 's all right .
I certainly have , this morning , received this letter " -- which he reads aloud -- " but I hope it may be set right yet .
" Mr. Rouncewell , " says Sir Leicester with his right hand in the breast of his blue coat , the attitude of state in which he is painted in the gallery , " do you draw a parallel between Chesney Wold and a -- " Here he resists a disposition to choke , " a factory ? "
Send a man for ' ard in the saddle to the next stage , and let him send another for ' ard again , and order four on , up , right through .
Sir Leicester says it slowly and with gravity and doubt , as not being sure but that he is called a lead-mistress or that the right word may be some other word expressive of some other relationship to some other metal .
Door right opposite the stairs . "
But I was not to be down-hearted , he told me , for it was as likely as not that the next stage might set us right again .
" My children , " said Mr. Turveydrop , paternally encircling Caddy with his left arm as she sat beside him , and putting his right hand gracefully on his hip .
Jo crosses and comes halting and shuffling up , slowly scooping the knuckles of his right hand round and round in the hollowed palm of his left , kneading dirt with a natural pestle and mortar .
And now the old lady impresses upon her son George , her own dear recovered boy , her joy and pride , the light of her eyes , the happy close of her life , and every fond name she can think of , that he must be governed by the best advice obtainable by money and influence , that he must yield up his case to the greatest lawyers that can be got , that he must act in this serious plight as he shall be advised to act and must not be self-willed , however right , but must promise to think only of his poor old mother 's anxiety and suffering until he is released , or he will break her heart .
She put her left hand in mine ( I was sitting on that side ) , but kept her right upon the keys , going over and over them without striking any note .
It told me that I would gain nothing by such a marriage and lose nothing by rejecting it , for no new relation could enhance the tenderness in which he held me , and whatever my decision was , he was certain it would be right .
He was so good and wise to ask ME whether he was right !
" You 're right ! "
Could it be possible that the will had set things right at last and that Richard and Ada were going to be rich ?
" Being quite a child , sir , " said I , " and so different from other people -- " " You are right ! "
" You are right , Mat ! "
Perhaps you do right to get used to one . "
It is right that I should be chastened in some penalty .
If I could clear this mystery for her , or prove her to be well related , or find that having the honour to be a remote branch of your ladyship 's family she had a right to be made a party in Jarndyce and Jarndyce , why , I might make a sort of a claim upon Miss Summerson to look with an eye of more dedicated favour on my proposals than she has exactly done as yet .
Which of us was right will soon appear , but I certainly did encourage expectations .
He solaces his imagination , too , by thinking of the many Chancellors and Vices , and Masters of the Rolls who are deceased ; and he gets such a flavour of the country out of telling the two ' prentices how he HAS heard say that a brook " as clear as crystial " once ran right down the middle of Holborn , when Turnstile really was a turnstile , leading slap away into the meadows -- gets such a flavour of the country out of this that he never wants to go there .
" Tony , " says he , " I can make allowances for lowness of spirits , for no man knows what it is when it does come upon a man better than I do , and no man perhaps has a better right to know it than a man who has an unrequited image imprinted on his ' eart .
While they were thus employed , my guardian , though he underwent considerable inconvenience from the state of the wind and rubbed his head so constantly that not a single hair upon it ever rested in its right place , was as genial with Ada and me as at any other time , but maintained a steady reserve on these matters .
The fellow , by his agent , or secretary , or somebody , writes to me ' Sir Leicester Dedlock , Baronet , presents his compliments to Mr. Lawrence Boythorn , and has to call his attention to the fact that the green pathway by the old parsonage-house , now the property of Mr. Lawrence Boythorn , is Sir Leicester 's right of way , being in fact a portion of the park of Chesney Wold , and that Sir Leicester finds it convenient to close up the same . '
Mr. Snagsby , I promised you as a man that he should be sent away all right .
" When she went from here , she went right away nor ' ard by the high road .
Mr. Bagnet , otherwise as immovable as a pump or a lamp-post , puts his large right hand on the top of his bald head as if to defend it from a shower-bath and looks with great uneasiness at Mrs. Bagnet .
And when I say so , you may trust to my being right , sir , for I have made it my business to study my high connexion and to be able to wind it up like a clock , sir . "
" You are right , " says Mr. George .
" Settled in the law , " said I. " Oh , aye , " replied Richard , " I 'm all right enough . "
It 's all right .
" Quite right , and quite true . "
I was right .
" If you think so , guardian , it is right . "
" Besides , it 's not as if I was an accomplished girl who had any right to give herself airs , " said Caddy .
" You 're right , " says the trooper , " and I 'll do it . "
They had stopped exhausted half-way up hills , they had been driven through streams of turbulent water , they had slipped down and become entangled with the harness ; but he and his little lantern had been always ready , and when the mishap was set right , I had never heard any variation in his cool , " Get on , my lads ! "
" A lady so graceful and accomplished , " he said , kissing his right glove and afterwards extending it towards the pupils , " will look leniently on the deficiencies here .
I want to see Ada righted , Woodcourt , as well as myself ; I want to do my utmost to right her , as well as myself ; I venture what I can scrape together to extricate her , as well as myself .
" Quite orderly and right , Sir Leicester . "
Yes , I see my way now , right on . "
" You are right , my child .
I mean , Mrs. Bagnet , there he was , dying without ever having been taught much more than to know his right hand from his left .
First , that he seems imperceptibly to establish a dreadful right of property in mademoiselle .
If any real disadvantage can attach to your position in the mind of any man or woman worth a thought , it is right that you at least of all the world should not magnify it to yourself by having vague impressions of its nature . "
I had no right , I knew very well , to be uncomfortable because she confided in me , and I felt it was unreasonable ; still , with all I could do , I could not quite help it .
He looks at it at arm 's length , brings it close to him , holds it in his right hand , holds it in his left hand , reads it with his head on this side , with his head on that side , contracts his eyebrows , elevates them , still can not satisfy himself .
It was quite right of you to say nothing about the lady the other night when we were out together .
Being here , I 'll wait if you make haste , and then I can testify on his behalf , if it should ever be necessary , that all was fair and right .
" All right !
That I was so confused and shaken as to be possessed by a belief that it was right and had been intended that I should die in my birth , and that it was wrong and not intended that I should be then alive .
She may be right , she may be wrong ; but , right or wrong , this is not my course with MY young family .
I 'M all right .
Here is a young woman , " says Sir Leicester , magnificently laying out the matter with his right hand like a service of plate , " whose good fortune it is to have attracted the notice and favour of an eminent lady and to live , under the protection of that eminent lady , surrounded by the various advantages which such a position confers , and which are unquestionably very great -- I believe unquestionably very great , sir -- for a young woman in that station of life .
" That 's right .
" You are right , little woman ; that I am sure they will . "
If I felt that I could ever give him the best right he could have to be my protector , and if I felt that I could happily and justly become the dear companion of his remaining life , superior to all lighter chances and changes than death , even then he could not have me bind myself irrevocably while this letter was yet so new to me , but even then I must have ample time for reconsideration .
Do n't you be afraid of my turning out of my way , right or left , or taking a sleep , or a wash , or a shave till I have found what I go in search of .
When you know you have done a right thing , you put it away , and it 's done with and gone , and there 's an end of it .
But as she informs her physician in her disjointed manner on coming down in full array that General George , whom she often calls upon , knows her dear Fitz Jarndyce and takes a great interest in all connected with her , Allan is induced to think that they may be in the right way .
And with a great many people in a great many instances , the question is never one of a change from wrong to right ( which is quite an extraneous consideration ) , but is always one of injury or advantage to that eminently respectable legion , Vholes .
And they are right .
" So I was right , you see ! "
" I am bound to confess , " said Mr. Guppy , " that you express yourself , miss , with that good sense and right feeling for which I gave you credit .
" I want to set you more right yet .
" All right ! "
It seems very strange , as there must be right somewhere , that an honest judge in real earnest has not been able to find out through all these years where it is . "
" That is quite right , " said the lady , " Miss Donny . "
" It 's all right .
" But I think Richard is right . "
Vholes , sitting with his arms on the desk , quietly bringing the tips of his five right fingers to meet the tips of his five left fingers , and quietly separating them again , and fixedly and slowly looking at his client , replies , " A good deal is doing , sir .
We must trust to you and time to set him right . "
" I was strolling away from the office just now when I found this row going on , " says Mr. Guppy to the law-stationer , " and as your name was mentioned , I thought it was right the thing should be looked into . "
You are right .
" All right now , " returns the trooper .
" He says ' In the matter of the right of way -- ' I beg your pardon , that 's not the place .
" My friends , " says Mr. Chadband with his persecuted chin folding itself into its fat smile again as he looks round , " it is right that I should be humbled , it is right that I should be tried , it is right that I should be mortified , it is right that I should be corrected .
" You 're right .
I 'm taking notice of you , Mrs. Bucket ; I hope you 're all right in your health , my dear ! "
" The picture on the right is the present Sir Leicester Dedlock .
I thought I often observed besides how right my guardian was in what he had said , and that the uncertainties and delays of the Chancery suit had imparted to his nature something of the careless spirit of a gamester who felt that he was part of a great gaming system .
A man of your fine figure and constitution has no right to be out of spirits .
Nothing can be more satisfactory than such right feeling , and if I mistook any intentions on your part just now , I am prepared to tender a full apology .
As they walk along , Mr. Snagsby observes , as a novelty , that however quick their pace may be , his companion still seems in some undefinable manner to lurk and lounge ; also , that whenever he is going to turn to the right or left , he pretends to have a fixed purpose in his mind of going straight ahead , and wheels off , sharply , at the very last moment .
Now , Esther , I do n't mean to amend that very objectionable course : I will not hold John Jarndyce 's favour on those unfair terms of compromise , which he has no right to dictate .
" Let me lay here quiet and not be chivied no more , " falters Jo , " and be so kind any person as is a-passin nigh where I used fur to sleep , as jist to say to Mr. Sangsby that Jo , wot he known once , is a-moving on right forards with his duty , and I 'll be wery thankful .
But it was not mine , and I did not feel that I had a right to tell it , even to my guardian , unless some great emergency arose .
He 's welcome to drop into me , right and left , if he likes .
There was an anxiety even in her hopefulness that made me doubtful if I had done right in approaching the subject .
Mr. Guppy , looking as if he would give his own reddening and still reddening ears to be one of those people at present instead of himself , replies , " Sir , if I attend to my profession and do what is right by Kenge and Carboy , my friends and acquaintances are of no consequence to them nor to any member of the profession , not excepting Mr. Tulkinghorn of the Fields .
" Offers me , " he went on , tapping his foot upon the floor , " the little inheritance she is certain of so soon -- just as little and as much as I have wasted -- and begs and prays me to take it , set myself right with it , and remain in the service . "
I observed that he doubled his right fist and delivered a secret blow into the crown of his cap , which was under his left arm .
You are right , " says Mr. Snagsby .
Sir Leicester feels it to be right and fitting that the housekeeper of Chesney Wold should be a remarkable person .
It was right that all that had sustained me should give way at once and that I should die of terror and my conscience .
" Am I right , Esther ? "
The world that sets this right .
Mr. Guppy nods and gives him a " lucky touch " on the back , but not with the washed hand , though it is his right hand .
I do n't know what I am about with it ; it 's all the wind -- invariably has that effect -- I wo n't press you , Rick ; you may be right .
When I calculated that this impetuous young woman would overdo it in new directions , was I wrong or right ?
" You are right ! "
" A-sparkling all over here , " says Jo , rubbing the fingers of his left hand on the knuckles of his right without taking his eyes from the figure .
Much mighty speech-making there has been , both in and out of Parliament , concerning Tom , and much wrathful disputation how Tom shall be got right .
He 'll go at it right on end if you want him to , as long as ever you like . "
Your son 's all right .
Whereas , heaven knows that if I could get out of the mountains of wiglomeration on which my unfortunate name has been so long bestowed ( which I ca n't ) or could level them by the extinction of my own original right ( which I ca n't either , and no human power ever can , anyhow , I believe , to such a pass have we got ) , I would do it this hour .
Mr. George , who has put aside his pipe and sits with an arm on his chair-back , beats a tattoo on the ground with his right foot as if he were not particularly pleased with the turn the conversation has taken .
" We thought that , perhaps , " said I , hesitating , " it is right to begin with the obligations of home , sir ; and that , perhaps , while those are overlooked and neglected , no other duties can possibly be substituted for them . "
It is not right , and I must not recognize it .
The dinner was put back an hour , and we were sitting round the fire with no light but the blaze when the hall-door suddenly burst open and the hall resounded with these words , uttered with the greatest vehemence and in a stentorian tone : " We have been misdirected , Jarndyce , by a most abandoned ruffian , who told us to take the turning to the right instead of to the left .
" Mr. George , my dear friend , " says Grandfather Smallweed , removing his right arm from the neck of one of his bearers , whom he has nearly throttled coming along , " how de do ?
Still , it 's not right , you know ; is it ? "
All this time Mr. Guppy was either planing his forehead with his handkerchief or tightly rubbing the palm of his left hand with the palm of his right .
I was doubtful whether I had a right to preserve what he had sent to one so different -- whether it was generous towards him to do it .
Then let him work the suit out and come through it to his right mind .
' Spend it , sir , ' says I. ' But I shall be taken in , ' he says , ' they wo n't give me the right change , I shall lose it , it 's no use to me . '
He has more leisure for musing in Staple Inn and in the Rolls Yard during the long vacation than at other seasons , and he says to the two ' prentices , what a thing it is in such hot weather to think that you live in an island with the sea a-rolling and a-bowling right round you .
I must n't go into court and say , ' My Lord , I beg to know this from you -- is this right or wrong ?
She went one way , and Jenny went another ; one went right to Lunnun , and t ' other went right from it .
I 've kept myself on this case , Sir Leicester Dedlock , Baronet , " whom Mr. Bucket takes into the conversation in right of his importance , " morning , noon , and night .
" We were right , I need n't tell the present hearers .
Then the greater right I have on my side when I resolve to do all I can to bring it to an end . "
at Malta with her right eye , and shaking the pepper away from Quebec with her head , " I begin to think George is in the roving way again .
Having leisurely helped himself from a canister borrowed from somebody downstairs for the purpose , and having made a considerable show of tasting it , first with one side of his nose and then with the other , Mr. Bucket , with much deliberation , pronounces it of the right sort and goes on , letter in hand .
If I go farther , and observe that I can not readily conceive how ANY right of mine can be a minor point , I speak not so much in reference to myself as an individual as in reference to the family position I have it in charge to maintain . "
Miss Summerson that was here when Gridley died -- that was the name , I know -- all right -- where does she live ? "
" The deceased , you know , " says Mr. Snagsby , twitching his head and right eyebrow towards the staircase and tapping his acquaintance on the button .
returns Mr. Bagnet with right good will .
I was right . "
I never could have been set right without you , sir . "
The court is , by solemn settlement of law , our grim old guardian , and we are to suppose that what it gives us ( when it gives us anything ) is our right .
When this young heathen now among us -- who is now , my friends , asleep , the seal of indifference and perdition being set upon his eyelids ; but do not wake him , for it is right that I should have to wrestle , and to combat and to struggle , and to conquer , for his sake -- when this young hardened heathen told us a story of a cock , and of a bull , and of a lady , and of a sovereign , was THAT the Terewth ?
The truth is said to be that when Sir Leicester came down to Lincolnshire for good , Mr. Boythorn showed a manifest desire to abandon his right of way and do whatever Sir Leicester would , which Sir Leicester , conceiving to be a condescension to his illness or misfortune , took in such high dudgeon , and was so magnificently aggrieved by , that Mr. Boythorn found himself under the necessity of committing a flagrant trespass to restore his neighbour to himself .
Comes back and says it 's all right and all quiet , and quotes the remark he lately made to Mr. Snagsby about their cooking chops at the Sol 's Arms .
Mrs. Rouncewell holds this opinion because she considers that a family of such antiquity and importance has a right to a ghost .
" Ve-ry right ! "
I promise you , as a man , that you shall see the boy sent away all right .
The trooper shakes his head , and leaning forward with his right elbow on his right knee and his pipe supported in that hand , while his other hand , resting on his left leg , squares his left elbow in a martial manner , continues to smoke .
I think , " said Miss Flite , drawing herself back with a very shrewd look and shaking her right forefinger in a most significant manner , " that the Lord Chancellor , aware of the length of time during which the Great Seal has been open ( for it has been open a long time ! )
I endeavoured to say that I knew he was far more capable than I of deciding what we ought to do , but was he sure that this was right ?
I should wish to be understood , miss , as hereby offering that apology -- limiting it , as your own good sense and right feeling will point out the necessity of , to the present proceedings . "
I shall come all right again , then , do n't you be afraid . "
" All right , sir ! "
" You are right , little woman , " he answered .
My guardian 's delicacy had soon perceived this and had tried to convey to her that he thought she was right .
I want to set you more right with yourself . "
" I have squared it with the lad , " says Mr. Bucket , returning , " and it 's all right .
This is the Court of Chancery , which has its decaying houses and its blighted lands in every shire , which has its worn-out lunatic in every madhouse and its dead in every churchyard , which has its ruined suitor with his slipshod heels and threadbare dress borrowing and begging through the round of every man 's acquaintance , which gives to monied might the means abundantly of wearying out the right , which so exhausts finances , patience , courage , hope , so overthrows the brain and breaks the heart , that there is not an honourable man among its practitioners who would not give -- who does not often give -- the warning , " Suffer any wrong that can be done you rather than come here ! "
I think I had some strong hope that he must be right and could not fail to have a satisfactory object in following this woman , but I tormented myself with questioning it and discussing it during the whole journey .
They straggle about in wrong places , look at wrong things , do n't care for the right things , gape when more rooms are opened , exhibit profound depression of spirits , and are clearly knocked up .
Sometimes she recited a few verses from Crumlinwallinwer and the Mewlinnwillinwodd ( if those are the right names , which I dare say they are not ) , and would become quite fiery with the sentiments they expressed .
Mr. Snagsby takes his book down from the safe , makes another bolt of the bit of bread and butter which seemed to have stopped short , eyes the affidavit aside , and brings his right forefinger travelling down a page of the book , " Jewby -- Packer -- Jarndyce . "
I had n't hardly got back here when I heard a shot go echoing and rattling right away into the inn .
As the dear old infant would be with us directly , he begged that I would make an appointment for the morning , when he might set himself right through the means of an unreserved conversation with me .
You 're right . "
" I am so persuaded that your own good sense and right feeling , miss , will -- will keep you as square as possible -- that I can have nothing but pleasure , I am sure , in hearing any observations you may wish to offer . "
" You are right , my dear , I wo n't .
" You are right , sir .
" My dear father , " returned Prince , " we well know what little comforts you are accustomed to and have a right to , and it will always be our study and our pride to provide those before anything .
Oh , it 's all right enough !
Therefore I had wanted to be alone , and therefore I said , now alone , in my own room , " Esther , if you are to be happy , if you are to have any right to pray to be true-hearted , you must keep your word , my dear . "
I was going for the one , and my darling was going for the other ; and my darling was right again .
Richard was a little grave after these interviews , but invariably told Ada and me that it was all right , and then began to talk about something else .
" But how do you and your neighbour get on about the disputed right of way ? "
Overcoming these disadvantages to the best of his ability , Mr. Bagnet at last dishes and they sit down at table , Mrs. Bagnet occupying the guest 's place at his right hand .
Dead , right reverends and wrong reverends of every order .
How much less amiable I must have been than they thought me , how much less amiable than I thought myself , to be so preoccupied with my own cheerfulness and contentment as to think that it only rested with me to put my dear girl right and set her mind at peace !
" You are right again , my dear , " the old lady retorted , " but I do n't refer to his profession , look you . "
" It 's quite right .
So after he had been a little while with Ada , I went in and found my darling ( as I knew she would be ) prepared to consider him thoroughly right in whatever he said .
I resolved in my own mind in this little pause , by some means , to see Richard when I grew strong and try to set him right .
It made me uneasy that at such a time when he most required some right principle and purpose he should have this captivating looseness and putting-off of everything , this airy dispensing with all principle and purpose , at his elbow .
I have been at his right hand many a day when he was charging upon ruin full-gallop .
As on the ruined human wretch vermin parasites appear , so these ruined shelters have bred a crowd of foul existence that crawls in and out of gaps in walls and boards ; and coils itself to sleep , in maggot numbers , where the rain drips in ; and comes and goes , fetching and carrying fever and sowing more evil in its every footprint than Lord Coodle , and Sir Thomas Doodle , and the Duke of Foodle , and all the fine gentlemen in office , down to Zoodle , shall set right in five hundred years -- though born expressly to do it .
If you consider it right to mention them to Rick and Ada , " looking seriously at me , " you can .
" You are right .
" The officer , Volumnia , " observes Sir Leicester , " is faithful to his duty , and perfectly right . "
They have a higher right than ours . "
The prince , at last , objecting to this , " in which , " said Mr. Skimpole , in the frankest manner , " he was perfectly right , " the engagement terminated , and Mr. Skimpole having ( as he added with delightful gaiety ) " nothing to live upon but love , fell in love , and married , and surrounded himself with rosy cheeks . "
" You see , Esther , " said Caddy , who thoroughly enjoyed a little confidence , " after you spoke to me about its being wrong to marry without Ma 's knowledge , or even to keep Ma long in the dark respecting our engagement -- though I do n't believe Ma cares much for me , I must say -- I thought it right to mention your opinions to Prince .
Jo , shaking and chattering , slowly rises and stands , after the manner of his tribe in a difficulty , sideways against the hoarding , resting one of his high shoulders against it and covertly rubbing his right hand over his left and his left foot over his right .
Comes Mr. Snagsby in his black coat ; come the Chadbands ; come ( when the gorging vessel is replete ) the ' prentices and Guster , to be edified ; comes at last , with his slouching head , and his shuffle backward , and his shuffle forward , and his shuffle to the right , and his shuffle to the left , and his bit of fur cap in his muddy hand , which he picks as if it were some mangy bird he had caught and was plucking before eating raw , Jo , the very , very tough subject Mr. Chadband is to improve .
And from her tumbled hair to her pretty feet , which were disfigured with frayed and broken satin slippers trodden down at heel , she really seemed to have no article of dress upon her , from a pin upwards , that was in its proper condition or its right place .
We would fairly try , he said , who was right and who was wrong -- he would show us -- we should see !
You are right there !
One might have supposed that the course was straight on -- over everything , neither to the right nor to the left , regardless of all considerations in the way , sparing nothing , treading everything under foot . "
It 's all right as far as the boy 's concerned .
" God knows you are right , master , " she returns .
Bless your heart , my excellent girl , " said Richard , quite amused with me , " I shall be all right !
It will be all right at last , and then you shall see ! "
And mind once more , ma'am , what you had best do on finding George to be your own son is to make him -- for your sake -- have every sort of help to put himself in the right and clear himself of a charge of which he is as innocent as you or me .
